At first glance, the PrideInn Paradise Hotel looks like a standard beach hotel in Mombasa built several decades ago. There are 300 rooms set around a large pool and garden area facing the sea. The disco area and thatched bandas on the beach complete the conventional hotel look, but that s about where the stereotype ends. Red is the hotel s brand colour, and it is featured everywhere you look: The beach umbrellas, lounge cushions, bedroom curtains, table linens, staff uniform and more. Apparently, the shade of tomato red inspires energy and life. The furniture and fixtures seemed to have been carefully selected. The custom-made wooden Lamu furniture, the metal lampshades in the public areas, and the wall photography of historic Coastal sites create a contemporary cultural theme. But I was most impressed by the service at the hotel. From the security personnel at the gate to the conference centre where I was attending a workshop, the employees were courteous, friendly and energetic. Some of the conference staff even remembered us by name from a previous visit. Our requests were responded to promptly, and although the WiFi signal gave us some difficulty, that was eventually corrected. From a chat with one of the managers, I learned that everybody goes through a three-month induction, including the personnel from the outsourced security company. The general manager and other senior staff wear uniform just like the junior employees, which probably enhances the team unity. However, halfway through the week, the delegates were served a different menu that was not as delectable as the one for regular guests. There were fewer dishes, which were less exciting, and the chicken served two different ways goes against the culinary rules of not repeating a meat item. Only hot beverages were served during the tea breaks, so we were quite parched by lunchtime. I had a ground-floor, garden-facing room, and I hear views from the ocean-facing rooms are breathtaking. The bedroom towels folded into swans and water lilies are a common practice, but the hotel does not provide face flannels. The clothesline in the bathroom is a brilliant idea and a long overdue facility at Coast hotels where guests frequently hang wet laundry out to dry. I took a peek inside a family suite each is named after an animated movie like The Jungle Book or Madagascar. It had a large double-bed and a children s bunk bed in an alcove, with movie characters painted on the walls. The animal-themed water park kept the youngsters entertained; the pool area remains open for long hours, so working guests could still enjoy some late evening swimming. There was not much time to enjoy the sea, but as I walked along the beachfront I came across two areas cordoned off with sticks. A small sign identified them as turtle nesting sites where eggs had been laid on February 18, and were expected to hatch on the same date in April. I was happy to find that wildlife is protected. The hotel changed ownership a few years ago, and was re-opened in 2015. At first glance, the PrideInn Paradise Hotel looks like a standard beach hotel in Mombasa built several decades ago. There are 300 rooms set around a large pool and garden area facing the sea. The disco area and thatched bandas on the beach complete the conventional hotel look, but that s about where the stereotype ends.Red is the hotel s brand colour, and it is featured everywhere you look: The beach umbrellas, lounge cushions, bedroom curtains, table linens, staff uniform and more. Apparently, the shade of tomato red inspires energy and life.The furniture and fixtures seemed to have been carefully selected. The custom-made wooden Lamu furniture, the metal lampshades in the public areas, and the wall photography of historic Coastal sites create a contemporary cultural theme. But I was most impressed by the service at the hotel.From the security personnel at the gate to the conference centre where I was attending a workshop, the employees were courteous, friendly and energetic. Some of the conference staff even remembered us by name from a previous visit. Our requests were responded to promptly, and although the WiFi signal gave us some difficulty, that was eventually corrected. From a chat with one of the managers, I learned that everybody goes through a three-month induction, including the personnel from the outsourced security company. The general manager and other senior staff wear uniform just like the junior employees, which probably enhances the team unity. However, halfway through the week, the delegates were served a different menu that was not as delectable as the one for regular guests. There were fewer dishes, which were less exciting, and the chicken served two different ways goes against the culinary rules of not repeating a meat item. Only hot beverages were served during the tea breaks, so we were quite parched by lunchtime.I had a ground-floor, garden-facing room, and I hear views from the ocean-facing rooms are breathtaking. The bedroom towels folded into swans and water lilies are a common practice, but the hotel does not provide face flannels. The clothesline in the bathroom is a brilliant idea and a long overdue facility at Coast hotels where guests frequently hang wet laundry out to dry. I took a peek inside a family suite each is named after an animated movie like The Jungle Book or Madagascar. It had a large double-bed and a children s bunk bed in an alcove, with movie characters painted on the walls.The animal-themed water park kept the youngsters entertained; the pool area remains open for long hours, so working guests could still enjoy some late evening swimming. There was not much time to enjoy the sea, but as I walked along the beachfront I came across two areas cordoned off with sticks. A small sign identified them as turtle nesting sites where eggs had been laid on February 18, and were expected to hatch on the same date in April. I was happy to find that wildlife is protected.The hotel changed ownership a few years ago, and was re-opened in 2015.