Dear President Yoweri Kaguta Museveni, I have just listened carefully to the speech you gave in Arusha during the recent EAC Heads of State Summit. The bit on Burundi startled me: Burundi is our member and no action should be taken against it without our input. Our house is our house. We have an issue with the European Union: It unilaterally imposed sanctions against Burundi; one of our members. I had the strange impression of hearing a ghost speak, the impression of hearing Idi Amin Dada s voice. Same comments, same nationalistic demagoguery: Europe! Europe! Has the freedom fighter in you been defeated a posteriori by the spirit of the grotesque marshal? Should Julius Nyerere, to whom you often refer, have had the same strange vision of the world as you, Idi Amin would probably still be around as the supreme leader of Uganda. But you see, Nyerere was a humanist. Nyerere did not say: Leave Idi Amin alone; leave this matter alone; it is a matter concerning the people of East Africa. Nyerere said: No, we cannot let barbarism take root and prosper at our borders; no, we cannot accept that a tyrant continues to torture and kill his own people in broad daylight and right before our eyes against a backdrop of general indifference. Nyerere and Idi Amin Nyerere stood up, took responsibility, gathered and mobilised the entire world and Idi Amin was overthrown. In the wake of that overthrow, you came to power. Thanks to, it must be remembered, the crucial support of the exiled Rwandan youth residing in Uganda and the logistic helping hand of a certain Bagaza, then in power in Bujumbura. Since that time, you regularly evoke Mwalimu in your endless speeches to say the exact opposite of what Nyerere would have said or done. As a reminder, in case your memory is failing you, Mwalimu promoted sanctions against the apartheid regime, Mwalimu called for sanctions against the Lagos government during the Biafra massacre, Mwalimu was the champion of the sanctions against Burundi in the 1990s But you, yes you, what are you talking about today? The exact opposite. That Europe by imposing sanctions on Burundi dared to punish your child in your home without consulting or informing you first. According to you, before deciding, in accordance with its own principles and values, to no longer give its taxpayers money to a regime of killers in Bujumbura, the European Union should have humbly sought your permission to remain faithful and coherent to its own values! Such a stand is simply not worthy of the freedom fighter that you once were. Bwana Museveni, in Burundi, and you know this full well, human lives are being destroyed, young people tortured, women raped, hatred and divisions instilled. Horrors. Crimes against humanity. Acts of genocide. All this may not be such a big deal to you and will certainly not stop you from sleeping soundly. And therein lies the tragedy of Africa: In that insensitivity; in that total disregard for life; that trivialisation of violence, crushing and destruction of life. Kenyatta in Kenya, Kenneth Kaunda in Zambia, Mandela in South Africa, Neto in Angola, Toivo Ya Toivo in Namibia, were all imprisoned by the colonial powers and were all released alive. And what do we see today under our famous Suns of Independence? Dear President Yoweri Kaguta Museveni, I have just listened carefully to the speech you gave in Arusha during the recent EAC Heads of State Summit. The bit on Burundi startled me: Burundi is our member and no action should be taken against it without our input. Our house is our house. We have an issue with the European Union: It unilaterally imposed sanctions against Burundi; one of our members. I had the strange impression of hearing a ghost speak, the impression of hearing Idi Amin Dada s voice.Same comments, same nationalistic demagoguery: Europe! Europe! Has the freedom fighter in you been defeated a posteriori by the spirit of the grotesque marshal? Should Julius Nyerere, to whom you often refer, have had the same strange vision of the world as you, Idi Amin would probably still be around as the supreme leader of Uganda. But you see, Nyerere was a humanist. Nyerere did not say: Leave Idi Amin alone; leave this matter alone; it is a matter concerning the people of East Africa. Nyerere said: No, we cannot let barbarism take root and prosper at our borders; no, we cannot accept that a tyrant continues to torture and kill his own people in broad daylight and right before our eyes against a backdrop of general indifference. Nyerere and Idi AminNyerere stood up, took responsibility, gathered and mobilised the entire world and Idi Amin was overthrown. In the wake of that overthrow, you came to power. Thanks to, it must be remembered, the crucial support of the exiled Rwandan youth residing in Uganda and the logistic helping hand of a certain Bagaza, then in power in Bujumbura.Since that time, you regularly evoke Mwalimu in your endless speeches to say the exact opposite of what Nyerere would have said or done. As a reminder, in case your memory is failing you, Mwalimu promoted sanctions against the apartheid regime, Mwalimu called for sanctions against the Lagos government during the Biafra massacre, Mwalimu was the champion of the sanctions against Burundi in the 1990s But you, yes you, what are you talking about today? The exact opposite. That Europe by imposing sanctions on Burundi dared to punish your child in your home without consulting or informing you first. According to you, before deciding, in accordance with its own principles and values, to no longer give its taxpayers money to a regime of killers in Bujumbura, the European Union should have humbly sought your permission to remain faithful and coherent to its own values! Such a stand is simply not worthy of the freedom fighter that you once were.Bwana Museveni, in Burundi, and you know this full well, human lives are being destroyed, young people tortured, women raped, hatred and divisions instilled. Horrors. Crimes against humanity. Acts of genocide. All this may not be such a big deal to you and will certainly not stop you from sleeping soundly. And therein lies the tragedy of Africa: In that insensitivity; in that total disregard for life; that trivialisation of violence, crushing and destruction of life. Kenyatta in Kenya, Kenneth Kaunda in Zambia, Mandela in South Africa, Neto in Angola, Toivo Ya Toivo in Namibia, were all imprisoned by the colonial powers and were all released alive. And what do we see today under our famous Suns of Independence?