They had stayed in prison so long, almost totally isolated from the world, that when the jail officer informed them that he had received a fax from Pretoria ordering their release, their reaction was, What is a fax? This is one of the touching anecdotes told by Ahmed Kathrada who died this past week. He was one of the Rivonia Trialists along with Nelson Mandela, Walter Sisulu and others who were jailed in 1964 for plotting the overthrow of the apartheid regime in South Africa. On his release in 1989, he found so many changes had taken place that he was even a bit nostalgic about Robben Island. Kathrada Uncle Kathy to young South Africans would sometimes tell of the ease of life behind bars. You didn t have to do the simplest of things. There they open the doors for you and they close the gates, they give you food. Of course, that was after they were moved from Robben Island and hard labour. Kathrada was one of the most fiery fighters in the South African liberation movement led by the African National Congress in the 1950s and early 1960s, always front and centre of the different demos, marches and defiance campaigns against the brutal and inhuman political system. My personal recollection of him was from the Sechaba magazine published by the ANC and from discussions with O.R Tambo, president of the ANC and Johnny Makhatini, the movement s representative to North Africa, and later ANC chief of international relations. The discussions would normally take place at the ANC offices on No. 5, Larbi Ben M hidi Street in Algiers, which Tambo visited quite often on his tours of Algeria. Back in the early 1970s, it was not common knowledge that people of Indian origin were in the forefront of the liberation struggle alongside the black majority in South Africa, I guess because of the different racial experience in our part of the continent. But then we had travelled quite a different historical path from the one experienced by South Africa. The descendants of the slaves and indentured labourers imported into South Africa in different waves from as far back as the 17th century had so blended into the texture of South Africa s political and economic fabric that for people like Uncle Kathy, Kadar Osman, the Pahads and others to find themselves in the popular movement for liberation came naturally. And, of course, it cannot be forgotten that the Mahatma himself, Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi, lived and agitated in the country. So, the passing of Kathrada marks a milestone in the history of South Africa. To my knowledge, there remain only two South Africans from the Rivonia group one of whom is Andrew Mlangeni, now 91 years old, who spoke at Kathrada s funeral ceremony, and who talked of the departed great man as his own brother. These were, truly, brothers who gave their all to the struggle, risking everything, including their very lives, for the lofty ideals of freedom and human dignity. It is indeed one of the greatest puzzles of the history of South Africa that Madiba and his comrades at the Rivonia Trial were spared the rope. It is because of that selflessness invested in the struggle that Kathrada could not stand the descent of the ANC and the government it heads into unfettered greed, avarice and sleaze as personified by the Number One of the regime, Jacob Zuma himself. They had stayed in prison so long, almost totally isolated from the world, that when the jail officer informed them that he had received a fax from Pretoria ordering their release, their reaction was, What is a fax? This is one of the touching anecdotes told by Ahmed Kathrada who died this past week. He was one of the Rivonia Trialists along with Nelson Mandela, Walter Sisulu and others who were jailed in 1964 for plotting the overthrow of the apartheid regime in South Africa. On his release in 1989, he found so many changes had taken place that he was even a bit nostalgic about Robben Island.Kathrada Uncle Kathy to young South Africans would sometimes tell of the ease of life behind bars. You didn t have to do the simplest of things. There they open the doors for you and they close the gates, they give you food. Of course, that was after they were moved from Robben Island and hard labour.Kathrada was one of the most fiery fighters in the South African liberation movement led by the African National Congress in the 1950s and early 1960s, always front and centre of the different demos, marches and defiance campaigns against the brutal and inhuman political system.My personal recollection of him was from the Sechaba magazine published by the ANC and from discussions with O.R Tambo, president of the ANC and Johnny Makhatini, the movement s representative to North Africa, and later ANC chief of international relations. The discussions would normally take place at the ANC offices on No. 5, Larbi Ben M hidi Street in Algiers, which Tambo visited quite often on his tours of Algeria. Back in the early 1970s, it was not common knowledge that people of Indian origin were in the forefront of the liberation struggle alongside the black majority in South Africa, I guess because of the different racial experience in our part of the continent. But then we had travelled quite a different historical path from the one experienced by South Africa. The descendants of the slaves and indentured labourers imported into South Africa in different waves from as far back as the 17th century had so blended into the texture of South Africa s political and economic fabric that for people like Uncle Kathy, Kadar Osman, the Pahads and others to find themselves in the popular movement for liberation came naturally. And, of course, it cannot be forgotten that the Mahatma himself, Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi, lived and agitated in the country. So, the passing of Kathrada marks a milestone in the history of South Africa. To my knowledge, there remain only two South Africans from the Rivonia group one of whom is Andrew Mlangeni, now 91 years old, who spoke at Kathrada s funeral ceremony, and who talked of the departed great man as his own brother. These were, truly, brothers who gave their all to the struggle, risking everything, including their very lives, for the lofty ideals of freedom and human dignity. It is indeed one of the greatest puzzles of the history of South Africa that Madiba and his comrades at the Rivonia Trial were spared the rope. It is because of that selflessness invested in the struggle that Kathrada could not stand the descent of the ANC and the government it heads into unfettered greed, avarice and sleaze as personified by the Number One of the regime, Jacob Zuma himself.