President Donald Trump has to a large extent kept his campaign pledges despite the dismay of many in the international community, who hoped the USA s well-entrenched institutions would save the world from some of his catastrophic intentions. In his raft of pledges to make America Great Again, none was as obnoxious as his juvenile estimation that global warming was not a threat to mankind but a conspiracy by emerging economies led by China and India to decimate America s global power. On that incredible premise, the Donald said he would pull his country out of the Paris Climate Change Accord in order to protect US jobs. I was elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh, not Paris, he was reported quipping when signing the withdrawal. While the rest of the world can soldier on with efforts to conserve the planet, America s exit to some degree robs the accord of some of its legitimacy. Other global accords to which America is not a signatory notably the Rome Statute and the Kyoto Protocol that preceded the Paris Accord have suffered for not having the intimidating force of the world s superpower behind them. That loss, together with the $2 billion support for the Green Climate Fund that the US was yet to release and the likelihood of recalcitrant leaders taking their cue from Trump fed most of the moaning from global leaders over the US decision. In response to the US withdrawal, Russian President Vladimir Putin said he could not judge Trump, putting into doubt Moscow s commitment to the pact in the long run. Global warming is real. Research by a US institute affiliated to the National Aeronautics and Space Agency (Nasa) shows that global temperatures have risen by 0.8 degrees Celsius in the past 137 years. In the past 32 years (since 1975), the temperature has risen by 0.53 degrees Celsius. If nothing is done to combat greenhouse emissions, temperatures will rise by 4.2 degrees Celsius in a short 83 years, according to Climate Interactive, a US think tank. The Paris Accord with backing from all countries would reduce that to 3.6 degrees Celsius and to 3.3 degrees Celsius without the US against a target of 1.5 degrees Celsius. In short, Trump is too blind to see what he is doing despite wake-up calls from the G7, his predecessor Barack Obama and UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres. However, both Obama and Guterres have challenged businesses, states and cities to step up their conservation efforts and take up the leadership role vacated by the US. Already US corporations like Exxon have been pushed by investors to factor in the impact of climate change their operations in a new wave of human conscience pricking the soul of even the most avowed capitalists. US business, with the exception of coal, has see through their government s decision, which threatens stability of raw material supplies from as well as disposable incomes from faraway markets hit by global warming, Africa in particular. China, India, the African Union and the European Union have said they will lead from the front in curbing emissions. Across the world, simple actions from unheralded individuals and communities are showing the way on what can be achieved outside industrial zones. This should be the reaction to President Trump s disregard of what is best for mankind and posterity. President Donald Trump has to a large extent kept his campaign pledges despite the dismay of many in the international community, who hoped the USA s well-entrenched institutions would save the world from some of his catastrophic intentions.In his raft of pledges to make America Great Again, none was as obnoxious as his juvenile estimation that global warming was not a threat to mankind but a conspiracy by emerging economies led by China and India to decimate America s global power. On that incredible premise, the Donald said he would pull his country out of the Paris Climate Change Accord in order to protect US jobs. I was elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh, not Paris, he was reported quipping when signing the withdrawal.While the rest of the world can soldier on with efforts to conserve the planet, America s exit to some degree robs the accord of some of its legitimacy. Other global accords to which America is not a signatory notably the Rome Statute and the Kyoto Protocol that preceded the Paris Accord have suffered for not having the intimidating force of the world s superpower behind them. That loss, together with the $2 billion support for the Green Climate Fund that the US was yet to release and the likelihood of recalcitrant leaders taking their cue from Trump fed most of the moaning from global leaders over the US decision. In response to the US withdrawal, Russian President Vladimir Putin said he could not judge Trump, putting into doubt Moscow s commitment to the pact in the long run.Global warming is real. Research by a US institute affiliated to the National Aeronautics and Space Agency (Nasa) shows that global temperatures have risen by 0.8 degrees Celsius in the past 137 years.In the past 32 years (since 1975), the temperature has risen by 0.53 degrees Celsius. If nothing is done to combat greenhouse emissions, temperatures will rise by 4.2 degrees Celsius in a short 83 years, according to Climate Interactive, a US think tank.The Paris Accord with backing from all countries would reduce that to 3.6 degrees Celsius and to 3.3 degrees Celsius without the US against a target of 1.5 degrees Celsius. In short, Trump is too blind to see what he is doing despite wake-up calls from the G7, his predecessor Barack Obama and UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres.However, both Obama and Guterres have challenged businesses, states and cities to step up their conservation efforts and take up the leadership role vacated by the US. Already US corporations like Exxon have been pushed by investors to factor in the impact of climate change their operations in a new wave of human conscience pricking the soul of even the most avowed capitalists.US business, with the exception of coal, has see through their government s decision, which threatens stability of raw material supplies from as well as disposable incomes from faraway markets hit by global warming, Africa in particular. China, India, the African Union and the European Union have said they will lead from the front in curbing emissions. Across the world, simple actions from unheralded individuals and communities are showing the way on what can be achieved outside industrial zones. This should be the reaction to President Trump s disregard of what is best for mankind and posterity.