Mauritius fast food giant Innscor International has announced ventures in Rwanda despite an ongoing court dispute with a Rwandan investor over trademark. The company s officials were in Kigali on April 6, calling on potential investors to buy franchises to operate its brands Chicken Inn, Pizza Inn, Galito s and Creamy Inn in the country. We are opening branches in Rwanda in the next six months and we are looking for interested investors for joint ventures or to operate our franchise, said chief executive officer of franchising at Innscor International, Manoli Vardas. However, some prospective investors raised their concern over the viability of the business since a local firm already operates Chicken Inn and Pizza Inn, which offer the same services. We trust the Rwandan judiciary and we hope the issue will be resolved in a short time before we start operations because whoever is operating the brands is doing it illegally, said Mr Vardas. The multinational claims that it has rights over Chicken Inn and Pizza Inn registered trademarks in several African countries including in Rwanda where it claims it registered the trademark in February 2014. However, the Rwandan investor says he registered Chicken Inn Ltd and Pizza Inn Ltd as companies and has been using the tradenames since October 2013. Last year, Innscor went to a commercial court to seek an injunction to stop the Rwandan investor from using Chicken Inn and Pizza Inn, but the case was dismissed because Innscor did not provide its certified incorporation certificate. However, the High Court ruled that Innscor could lodge its complaint again in the commercial court. The firm is yet to do so. Following Innscor s announced entry into the local market, the Rwandan investor who operates Chicken Inn and Pizza Inn has, through his lawyers, warned Innscor against opening shops with the same name. If they open shops with the same name it would amount to unfair competition and we will go to court over the matter, warned Jean Nepomuscene Mugengangabo, the lawyer to the Rwandan investor. Mr Mugengangabo said he has already sent a letter to Innscor s representatives asking them to stop their plan including their campaign to recruit business partners. Their campaign is misleading and it is causing confusion with our client s businesses, he said. The Rwandan investor has also started a media campaign, telling people to disregard any announcements about Chicken Inn and Pizza Inn opening in the country soon, because the two brands have been operational since 2013. They also called on the public to report whenever they hear such announcements. According to Innscor officials, the company is determined to start the franchises in the country and is even ready to go it alone, if there are no investors willing to join the franchise. Mauritius fast food giant Innscor International has announced ventures in Rwanda despite an ongoing court dispute with a Rwandan investor over trademark.The company s officials were in Kigali on April 6, calling on potential investors to buy franchises to operate its brands Chicken Inn, Pizza Inn, Galito s and Creamy Inn in the country. We are opening branches in Rwanda in the next six months and we are looking for interested investors for joint ventures or to operate our franchise, said chief executive officer of franchising at Innscor International, Manoli Vardas.However, some prospective investors raised their concern over the viability of the business since a local firm already operates Chicken Inn and Pizza Inn, which offer the same services. We trust the Rwandan judiciary and we hope the issue will be resolved in a short time before we start operations because whoever is operating the brands is doing it illegally, said Mr Vardas.The multinational claims that it has rights over Chicken Inn and Pizza Inn registered trademarks in several African countries including in Rwanda where it claims it registered the trademark in February 2014. However, the Rwandan investor says he registered Chicken Inn Ltd and Pizza Inn Ltd as companies and has been using the tradenames since October 2013.Last year, Innscor went to a commercial court to seek an injunction to stop the Rwandan investor from using Chicken Inn and Pizza Inn, but the case was dismissed because Innscor did not provide its certified incorporation certificate. However, the High Court ruled that Innscor could lodge its complaint again in the commercial court. The firm is yet to do so. Following Innscor s announced entry into the local market, the Rwandan investor who operates Chicken Inn and Pizza Inn has, through his lawyers, warned Innscor against opening shops with the same name. If they open shops with the same name it would amount to unfair competition and we will go to court over the matter, warned Jean Nepomuscene Mugengangabo, the lawyer to the Rwandan investor.Mr Mugengangabo said he has already sent a letter to Innscor s representatives asking them to stop their plan including their campaign to recruit business partners. Their campaign is misleading and it is causing confusion with our client s businesses, he said. The Rwandan investor has also started a media campaign, telling people to disregard any announcements about Chicken Inn and Pizza Inn opening in the country soon, because the two brands have been operational since 2013. They also called on the public to report whenever they hear such announcements.According to Innscor officials, the company is determined to start the franchises in the country and is even ready to go it alone, if there are no investors willing to join the franchise.