East Africa s stock exchanges are finding it difficult to convince small and medium-sized companies to sell their shares to the public, as many of them are family-owned and not ready for the strict regulations and public scrutiny. Nairobi Securities Exchange and Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange have listed just five companies each since the launch of the SME trading platforms five years ago, while Rwanda Securities Exchange and Ugandan Securities Exchange have not attracted any listings to their SME segments. Executive director of the Rwanda Capital Markets Authority Robert Mathu said family-owned businesses are reluctant to undergo scrutiny. In as much as the requirements for SME listing are lighter, we expect some very basic fundamental things to be put in place including a minimum of three directors of which 30 per cent (one director) must be independent, Mr Mathu told The EastAfrican. We have been talking to the SMEs. The biggest challenge is change of behaviour, but this is inevitable because we are a capital market. They need to open up to people who want to give them money, he added. Challenges Ugandan Securities Exchange launched its Growth Enterprise Market Segment (Gems) in 2013. Charles Nsamba, the communications manager at the Uganda Capital Markets Authority, said the challenge has been the informal nature of the SMEs and the requirement for proper corporate governance structures and book keeping standards. We have come to the realisation that this needs to be addressed, and in the 10-year master plan that is to be launched next month there is a proposal to streamline and simplify requirements for corporate issuance so that it s clear what one requires for the main market and for the growth market, said Mr Nsamba. The DSE, which launched its Enterprise Growth Market (EGM) in 2013, is also struggling to convince SMEs to sell their shares to the public. DSE chief executive Moremi Marwa told The EastAfrican that the low turn-out on the EGM is due to the legacies of family-owned businesses, lack of awareness, lack of enough nominated advisors (currently need four), and limited corporate actions such as dividends and bonus issues after listing. The five companies listed so far are valued at Tsh117.55 billion ($52 million) on the EGM. These are Mkombozi Commercial Bank, Maendeleo Bank, Swala Oil and Gas, Yetu Microfinance, and Mwalimu Commercial Bank. READ: Tanzania's Magufuli pushes for listing of mining firms Poor performance However, even as the bourses entice SMEs to the stock market, the performance of the already listed firms is wanting. The NSE and financial advisors are on the spot for the financial pain facing investors who put their money into the listed SMEs. East Africa s stock exchanges are finding it difficult to convince small and medium-sized companies to sell their shares to the public, as many of them are family-owned and not ready for the strict regulations and public scrutiny.Nairobi Securities Exchange and Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange have listed just five companies each since the launch of the SME trading platforms five years ago, while Rwanda Securities Exchange and Ugandan Securities Exchange have not attracted any listings to their SME segments. Executive director of the Rwanda Capital Markets Authority Robert Mathu said family-owned businesses are reluctant to undergo scrutiny. In as much as the requirements for SME listing are lighter, we expect some very basic fundamental things to be put in place including a minimum of three directors of which 30 per cent (one director) must be independent, Mr Mathu told The EastAfrican. We have been talking to the SMEs. The biggest challenge is change of behaviour, but this is inevitable because we are a capital market. They need to open up to people who want to give them money, he added.ChallengesUgandan Securities Exchange launched its Growth Enterprise Market Segment (Gems) in 2013.Charles Nsamba, the communications manager at the Uganda Capital Markets Authority, said the challenge has been the informal nature of the SMEs and the requirement for proper corporate governance structures and book keeping standards. We have come to the realisation that this needs to be addressed, and in the 10-year master plan that is to be launched next month there is a proposal to streamline and simplify requirements for corporate issuance so that it s clear what one requires for the main market and for the growth market, said Mr Nsamba. The DSE, which launched its Enterprise Growth Market (EGM) in 2013, is also struggling to convince SMEs to sell their shares to the public.DSE chief executive Moremi Marwa told The EastAfrican that the low turn-out on the EGM is due to the legacies of family-owned businesses, lack of awareness, lack of enough nominated advisors (currently need four), and limited corporate actions such as dividends and bonus issues after listing.The five companies listed so far are valued at Tsh117.55 billion ($52 million) on the EGM. These are Mkombozi Commercial Bank, Maendeleo Bank, Swala Oil and Gas, Yetu Microfinance, and Mwalimu Commercial Bank.READ: Tanzania's Magufuli pushes for listing of mining firmsPoor performanceHowever, even as the bourses entice SMEs to the stock market, the performance of the already listed firms is wanting. The NSE and financial advisors are on the spot for the financial pain facing investors who put their money into the listed SMEs.