Kenya has issued a travel warning against South Africa, citing a rising wave of crime in a move that may spark a fresh round of diplomatic showdown months after the two States resolved a protracted visa standoff. In a security alert sent to top government officials from Pretoria, Kenya s Foreign Affairs Principal Secretary Monica Juma has warned of increased cases of armed robberies, carjacking, theft, burglary, kidnap, rape and mugging. The most worrying element of this crime wave is the rising number of incidents of attacks within the vicinity of hotels, Dr Juma says. In addition, the diplomatic community is being openly attacked in residential areas and in the central business district. The letter further blames South African authorities for failing to stop the wave of attacks despite the crime reports being filed with the police. The letter, copied to Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua, is shared with all principal secretaries, governors, MPs, senators, Members of County Assemblies, the Solicitor-General and chief executives of independent commissions and agencies. We need to bring to the attention of all official delegations or members of public travelling to South Africa on duty or official assignments to be cautious, the letter says. Xenophobia South Africa has grappled with sporadic but violent xenophobic attacks since 2008 as its army of uneducated youth blame foreigners for the high level of joblessness. To minimise chances of xenophobic attacks, Dr Juma has advised Kenyans to arrive in South Africa before 6pm, book accommodation in well-established areas and avoid travelling in public service vehicles. The letter is dated April 24, the same day the United Kingdom issued a travel advisory against South Africa. There is a very high level of crime, including rape and murder in South Africa, the UK says in its travel warning. The most violent crimes tend to occur in townships, remote and isolated areas and away from the normal tourist destinations. Most visits to South Africa are trouble-free, but you should take sensible precautions to protect your safety. Canada has also issued a travel advisory against South Africa. On May 2, the North American state said it had not issued a nationwide advisory for South Africa but warned its citizens to exercise a high degree of caution due to the significant level of serious crime. For Kenya, the alert is likely to rekindle old diplomatic fires. Kenya has issued a travel warning against South Africa, citing a rising wave of crime in a move that may spark a fresh round of diplomatic showdown months after the two States resolved a protracted visa standoff.In a security alert sent to top government officials from Pretoria, Kenya s Foreign Affairs Principal Secretary Monica Juma has warned of increased cases of armed robberies, carjacking, theft, burglary, kidnap, rape and mugging. The most worrying element of this crime wave is the rising number of incidents of attacks within the vicinity of hotels, Dr Juma says. In addition, the diplomatic community is being openly attacked in residential areas and in the central business district. The letter further blames South African authorities for failing to stop the wave of attacks despite the crime reports being filed with the police.The letter, copied to Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua, is shared with all principal secretaries, governors, MPs, senators, Members of County Assemblies, the Solicitor-General and chief executives of independent commissions and agencies. We need to bring to the attention of all official delegations or members of public travelling to South Africa on duty or official assignments to be cautious, the letter says.XenophobiaSouth Africa has grappled with sporadic but violent xenophobic attacks since 2008 as its army of uneducated youth blame foreigners for the high level of joblessness.To minimise chances of xenophobic attacks, Dr Juma has advised Kenyans to arrive in South Africa before 6pm, book accommodation in well-established areas and avoid travelling in public service vehicles. The letter is dated April 24, the same day the United Kingdom issued a travel advisory against South Africa. There is a very high level of crime, including rape and murder in South Africa, the UK says in its travel warning. The most violent crimes tend to occur in townships, remote and isolated areas and away from the normal tourist destinations. Most visits to South Africa are trouble-free, but you should take sensible precautions to protect your safety. Canada has also issued a travel advisory against South Africa. On May 2, the North American state said it had not issued a nationwide advisory for South Africa but warned its citizens to exercise a high degree of caution due to the significant level of serious crime. For Kenya, the alert is likely to rekindle old diplomatic fires.