In March, when President Uhuru Kenyatta delivered his State of the Nation address, he was bullish about the political transformation and the deepening of democracy. He took pride in having assented to 136 laws during the life of the 11th Parliament, one of the highest in the country s history. Our democracy has matured, he said. I took office as an embodiment of the transition to a new constitutional order. Since then, there have been a number of significant transitions, especially in the Judiciary with a full bench in the Supreme Court led by the second Chief Justice under the new Constitution. Since 2010, Kenya has seen a revamped Judiciary and the creation of 24 commissions and two independent offices that are meant to protect the sovereignty of the people and ensure that all state organs observe democratic values and principles. The independent offices include those of the Auditor General and the Controller of Budget. Also up and running are the 47 Counties, with the devolved County governments which are now in charge of dispersing political power and economic resources at the grassroots level. Nzamba Kitonga, a Nairobi-based lawyer who chaired the Committee of Experts who drafted the Constitution, says that the 11th Parliament has done well on legislation, as most of the laws that were to breathe life into the 2010 Constitution have been enacted. But Mr Kitonga cites policy as an area where the Jubilee government has in some instances tried to subvert the implementation of the Constitution. He cited the parliamentary amendment on the appointment of the Chief Justice, where the government changed the law to allow the Judicial Service Commission to submit to the president three names from which to pick, instead of providing just one. Mr Kitonga went to court and had the amendment overturned. Security Laws (Amendment) Act, 2014 He also cites the Security Laws (Amendment) Act, 2014, part of the war against terrorism, which critics said took away fundamental civil liberties and restricts the freedom of the press. The Act made substantive amendments to the Penal Code, Criminal Procedure Code, Evidence Act, Prevention of Terrorism Act and National Services Act, which forced the opposition to go to court and some of the articles were suspended. Politicians will always want more power and always find ways of circumventing the constitutions if they can get away with it. However, Kenyans have learnt that they can go to court and challenge anything that is unconstitutional. Devolution which was the pillar of the 2010 Constitution has been the source of conflict between the national government on one hand and the opposition and governors on the other. In March, when President Uhuru Kenyatta delivered his State of the Nation address, he was bullish about the political transformation and the deepening of democracy. He took pride in having assented to 136 laws during the life of the 11th Parliament, one of the highest in the country s history. Our democracy has matured, he said. I took office as an embodiment of the transition to a new constitutional order. Since then, there have been a number of significant transitions, especially in the Judiciary with a full bench in the Supreme Court led by the second Chief Justice under the new Constitution. Since 2010, Kenya has seen a revamped Judiciary and the creation of 24 commissions and two independent offices that are meant to protect the sovereignty of the people and ensure that all state organs observe democratic values and principles. The independent offices include those of the Auditor General and the Controller of Budget.Also up and running are the 47 Counties, with the devolved County governments which are now in charge of dispersing political power and economic resources at the grassroots level. Nzamba Kitonga, a Nairobi-based lawyer who chaired the Committee of Experts who drafted the Constitution, says that the 11th Parliament has done well on legislation, as most of the laws that were to breathe life into the 2010 Constitution have been enacted. But Mr Kitonga cites policy as an area where the Jubilee government has in some instances tried to subvert the implementation of the Constitution.He cited the parliamentary amendment on the appointment of the Chief Justice, where the government changed the law to allow the Judicial Service Commission to submit to the president three names from which to pick, instead of providing just one. Mr Kitonga went to court and had the amendment overturned.Security Laws (Amendment) Act, 2014He also cites the Security Laws (Amendment) Act, 2014, part of the war against terrorism, which critics said took away fundamental civil liberties and restricts the freedom of the press. The Act made substantive amendments to the Penal Code, Criminal Procedure Code, Evidence Act, Prevention of Terrorism Act and National Services Act, which forced the opposition to go to court and some of the articles were suspended. Politicians will always want more power and always find ways of circumventing the constitutions if they can get away with it. However, Kenyans have learnt that they can go to court and challenge anything that is unconstitutional. Devolution which was the pillar of the 2010 Constitution has been the source of conflict between the national government on one hand and the opposition and governors on the other.