With the music industry leading in the arts, one would think that it is a lucrative career. However, this is not the case. Many of the artistes are young and the lack of money has caused some to abandon their music careers, while others hang on, in the hope that their patience will pay off. Siboniyo Yusoufu alias Jeff A Jay, 29, is a budding musician, who is trying to establish himself in this highly competitive industry. Despite being in the industry since 2012, he says he has not earned from his craft. The musician, who considers himself a ragga-dancehall artiste, has released several songs including: Show Me, Itangazo and Siribateri. He runs a salon business, which enables him to pay to record music. He got his qualifications in hairdressing in 2010. On a typical day, Siboniyo can be found at Venus Hair Saloon along with five colleagues. He then goes to the studio to work on his music from 9.30pm. Music can be demanding because it requires dedication, time and talent. It gets costly paying for studio time, video shoots and promoting songs, he said. Siboniyo has managed to keep at his music career because the salon earns him Rwf120,000 every month, from which he finances his passion. I think the government should set up public arenas, where we artistes can showcase our talent because currently, it is very expensive to host a show, Siboniyo said. Quick buck Music is a profession just like any other and if well handled, can see one earn from it, said 70-year old Abdul Makanyaga, a traditional folk music artiste. Makanyaga has been in the music industry for over 44 years. He said the young musicians are after a quick buck instead of nurturing their talent and passion for music. However, Siboniyo argues that even seasoned musicians find it difficult to make a living from their music. In recent years, renowned musicians like Koudou, Miss Jojo, Diplomate, Khizz, DMS, Bably, Kamichi and of late Auddy Kelly, have given up on their music, with some disappearing from the local music scene altogether. Others like Siboniyo, juggle a full-time job, which supports their music career. Gospel musician Clementine Uwitonze has been in the music industry since 2007, but she also runs a fashion business in Kigali. She said music is a calling. Success in this industry depends on the artiste s motives. If they are in it for money and they don t make it, they tend to quit, she said. With the music industry leading in the arts, one would think that it is a lucrative career. However, this is not the case. Many of the artistes are young and the lack of money has caused some to abandon their music careers, while others hang on, in the hope that their patience will pay off. Siboniyo Yusoufu alias Jeff A Jay, 29, is a budding musician, who is trying to establish himself in this highly competitive industry. Despite being in the industry since 2012, he says he has not earned from his craft. The musician, who considers himself a ragga-dancehall artiste, has released several songs including: Show Me, Itangazo and Siribateri. He runs a salon business, which enables him to pay to record music. He got his qualifications in hairdressing in 2010. On a typical day, Siboniyo can be found at Venus Hair Saloon along with five colleagues. He then goes to the studio to work on his music from 9.30pm. Music can be demanding because it requires dedication, time and talent. It gets costly paying for studio time, video shoots and promoting songs, he said. Siboniyo has managed to keep at his music career because the salon earns him Rwf120,000 every month, from which he finances his passion. I think the government should set up public arenas, where we artistes can showcase our talent because currently, it is very expensive to host a show, Siboniyo said. Quick buck Music is a profession just like any other and if well handled, can see one earn from it, said 70-year old Abdul Makanyaga, a traditional folk music artiste. Makanyaga has been in the music industry for over 44 years. He said the young musicians are after a quick buck instead of nurturing their talent and passion for music. However, Siboniyo argues that even seasoned musicians find it difficult to make a living from their music. In recent years, renowned musicians like Koudou, Miss Jojo, Diplomate, Khizz, DMS, Bably, Kamichi and of late Auddy Kelly, have given up on their music, with some disappearing from the local music scene altogether. Others like Siboniyo, juggle a full-time job, which supports their music career. Gospel musician Clementine Uwitonze has been in the music industry since 2007, but she also runs a fashion business in Kigali. She said music is a calling. Success in this industry depends on the artiste s motives. If they are in it for money and they don t make it, they tend to quit, she said.