One of Uganda s most successful gospel groups of the 1990s, Limit X, held a reunion concert and performed their album titled Timeless on April 28, at the Kampala Serena Hotel, to show appreciation to their fans. The group members Dennis Sempebwa, Paul Mutebi, Paul Serukenya and Isaac Ruccibigango came together after 13 years of pursuing solo careers. The four band members were all youth ministers and worship leaders at the Miracle Centre Church in Kampala where they started their singing careers in 1987 with the church s New Wave Band. They are credited with transforming gospel music in Uganda from the conservative hymnal approach by introducing heavy disco-style repertoire dance moves. They also ditched the conservative church dress code for flashy fashion and heavy jewellery. The band s memorable songs include Worship, Don t Pass Me, Fallen In Love, Unashamed, I Love Jesus, Solution, Clap Your Hands, Miracle, J.E.S.U.S, Thank You and Malibongwe (Come To Me). In 1989, they all moved to the UK. It was while in London that they changed the band s name from New Wave to Limit X. Their debut album, Unashamed, released in 1992 in London, made it into Britain s Top Ten Recommended Gospel Albums Chart. Ruccibigango said: We took a sabbatical in 2004 that ended up being a 13-year hiatus. The reunion and concert on April 28 was a new chapter in our lives for it could be a rebirth of an appetite in us to go on the musical road again, adding that, Dennis and I turn 50 this year. That is also a reason for this to happen. The trio of Mutebi, Ruccibigango and Sempebwa relocated to the US in 1993 where they released their second album, Malibongwe, in 1994. This album and the single Fallen In Love, made it into America s Contemporary Christian charts. Their third album Send Me was released in 1997. It was followed by 4 Real in 2000 and The Collection in 2002. The group has toured over 50 countries around the world. The last time they held a concert in Uganda was in 1993. Limit X was also among the first African gospel acts to win international awards and their music got massive playtime in clubs and on radio. They parted ways in 2004 to pursue individual projects. Mutebi is now a music producer and pastor in Minneapolis, USA; Ruccibigango returned to Uganda and runs an events management and media consultancy company; Serukenya is an electrical engineer in London and the band leader, Dr Sempebwa, who is still a musician, is a motivational speaker and runs a global ministry in 15 countries around the world. Part of the proceeds from the reunion concert will be used to support the free distribution of a book for the youth by band member Sempebwa, addressed to teenagers around the world. The book, titled Timeless Truths, contains 300 enduring proverbs for teenagers. One of Uganda s most successful gospel groups of the 1990s, Limit X, held a reunion concert and performed their album titled Timeless on April 28, at the Kampala Serena Hotel, to show appreciation to their fans. The group members Dennis Sempebwa, Paul Mutebi, Paul Serukenya and Isaac Ruccibigango came together after 13 years of pursuing solo careers. The four band members were all youth ministers and worship leaders at the Miracle Centre Church in Kampala where they started their singing careers in 1987 with the church s New Wave Band. They are credited with transforming gospel music in Uganda from the conservative hymnal approach by introducing heavy disco-style repertoire dance moves. They also ditched the conservative church dress code for flashy fashion and heavy jewellery. The band s memorable songs include Worship, Don t Pass Me, Fallen In Love, Unashamed, I Love Jesus, Solution, Clap Your Hands, Miracle, J.E.S.U.S, Thank You and Malibongwe (Come To Me). In 1989, they all moved to the UK. It was while in London that they changed the band s name from New Wave to Limit X. Their debut album, Unashamed, released in 1992 in London, made it into Britain s Top Ten Recommended Gospel Albums Chart.Ruccibigango said: We took a sabbatical in 2004 that ended up being a 13-year hiatus. The reunion and concert on April 28 was a new chapter in our lives for it could be a rebirth of an appetite in us to go on the musical road again, adding that, Dennis and I turn 50 this year. That is also a reason for this to happen. The trio of Mutebi, Ruccibigango and Sempebwa relocated to the US in 1993 where they released their second album, Malibongwe, in 1994. This album and the single Fallen In Love, made it into America s Contemporary Christian charts.Their third album Send Me was released in 1997. It was followed by 4 Real in 2000 and The Collection in 2002.The group has toured over 50 countries around the world. The last time they held a concert in Uganda was in 1993. Limit X was also among the first African gospel acts to win international awards and their music got massive playtime in clubs and on radio. They parted ways in 2004 to pursue individual projects. Mutebi is now a music producer and pastor in Minneapolis, USA; Ruccibigango returned to Uganda and runs an events management and media consultancy company; Serukenya is an electrical engineer in London and the band leader, Dr Sempebwa, who is still a musician, is a motivational speaker and runs a global ministry in 15 countries around the world.Part of the proceeds from the reunion concert will be used to support the free distribution of a book for the youth by band member Sempebwa, addressed to teenagers around the world. The book, titled Timeless Truths, contains 300 enduring proverbs for teenagers.