On a recent flight, I was idly flipping through the inflight magazine when I came across an unusual advert promising a unique strategy to safeguard your future prosperity and security. The advert was plugging what it called citizenship by investment. I had heard of citizenship-for-sale initiatives in the past, and prompted by the ad I briefly wondered whether a second citizenship beyond my American one was something I might need. Is this something that people other than the Uber rich are considering, and for reasons other than tax optimisation? And if so, why? As more countries tighten their borders and paths to immigration, a new industry is working to bypass those restrictions for a hefty fee. The global rise of populist movements, together with an ever-increasing sentiment towards the creation of insular societies have all contributed to the unpredictability of our rapidly changing world, explained the advert. Investment citizenship programmes are not new. They ve been around for decades, primarily as a way for countries to boost their incomes.Canada and the Caribbean island state of St Kitts and Nevis started theirs in the 1980s and the US and UK began similar ones in the 1990s. The specifics of different investment citizenship programmes vary by country. They allow foreigners to invest in real-estate projects and businesses, buy property, or to donate money directly to a country s government in exchange for a visa or passport. St Kitts and Nevis launched its initiative in 1984, one year after the fledgling country claimed independence from the UK. The aim was to get more money flowing in from entrepreneurs who saw value in tropical beaches and low taxes. It only attracted a few hundred participants in the beginning. But, by 2009, backed by a marketing campaign, passport holders of the island nation were given visa-free access to the 26 Schengen area countries and demand increased rapidly. READ: Visa-free travel across Africa closer to reality The industry has seen huge growth in recent years. The year 2014 marked the first time that the US ran out of immigrant-investor visas before the end of the fiscal year. Improved investment London-based consultancy firm CS Global Partners, shepherds investors through the legal process of procuring a passport through investment. The firm says interest in their services has grown fourfold in the past year. We are definitely seeing big shifts, said CEO Micha Emmett. The traditional market still exists very much so but we ve seen [people from] countries that were never interested in second citizenship by investment before, now coming online making inquiries. For example, we saw a 400 per cent increase in enquiries from Turkey in March. Events including the decision by Britain to leave the European Union and the 2016 US presidential election are driving new interest. UK citizens are now seriously weighing their options, Emmett says. On a recent flight, I was idly flipping through the inflight magazine when I came across an unusual advert promising a unique strategy to safeguard your future prosperity and security. The advert was plugging what it called citizenship by investment. I had heard of citizenship-for-sale initiatives in the past, and prompted by the ad I briefly wondered whether a second citizenship beyond my American one was something I might need. Is this something that people other than the Uber rich are considering, and for reasons other than tax optimisation? And if so, why? As more countries tighten their borders and paths to immigration, a new industry is working to bypass those restrictions for a hefty fee. The global rise of populist movements, together with an ever-increasing sentiment towards the creation of insular societies have all contributed to the unpredictability of our rapidly changing world, explained the advert.Investment citizenship programmes are not new. They ve been around for decades, primarily as a way for countries to boost their incomes.Canada and the Caribbean island state of St Kitts and Nevis started theirs in the 1980s and the US and UK began similar ones in the 1990s.The specifics of different investment citizenship programmes vary by country. They allow foreigners to invest in real-estate projects and businesses, buy property, or to donate money directly to a country s government in exchange for a visa or passport.St Kitts and Nevis launched its initiative in 1984, one year after the fledgling country claimed independence from the UK. The aim was to get more money flowing in from entrepreneurs who saw value in tropical beaches and low taxes.It only attracted a few hundred participants in the beginning. But, by 2009, backed by a marketing campaign, passport holders of the island nation were given visa-free access to the 26 Schengen area countries and demand increased rapidly.READ: Visa-free travel across Africa closer to realityThe industry has seen huge growth in recent years. The year 2014 marked the first time that the US ran out of immigrant-investor visas before the end of the fiscal year.Improved investmentLondon-based consultancy firm CS Global Partners, shepherds investors through the legal process of procuring a passport through investment. The firm says interest in their services has grown fourfold in the past year. We are definitely seeing big shifts, said CEO Micha Emmett. The traditional market still exists very much so but we ve seen [people from] countries that were never interested in second citizenship by investment before, now coming online making inquiries. For example, we saw a 400 per cent increase in enquiries from Turkey in March. Events including the decision by Britain to leave the European Union and the 2016 US presidential election are driving new interest.UK citizens are now seriously weighing their options, Emmett says.