The Kenyan government has signed a one-year $1.2 million deal with a Washington lobbying firm with close ties to the Donald Trump team, according to US Justice Department documents. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs entered the agreement with the Sonoran Policy Group (SPG) on May 25, shows a lobbying disclosure form filed on June 6. Trade An outline of the pact states that SPG "will provide US congressional and executive branch brand engagement to cement and deepen relations between Kenya and the US government as well as between the people of Kenya and the US". More specifically, SPG commits to "assisting the Embassy of Kenya achieve its objectives on the issues of tourism, trade, investment and Agoa". Agoa refers to the African Growth and Opportunity Act, a preferential trade initiative through which Kenya exports hundreds of millions of dollars of textiles duty-free to the US market. Trump employees SPG, headquartered in the state of Arizona, had maintained a comparatively low profile in the US capital until Donald Trump's election last November. That changed early this year when Stuart Jolly, a former national field director for Mr Trump's White House campaign, was appointed president of SPG. The firm also employed two other former Trump staffers: Robin Townley and Jacob Daniels. Mr Townley, a former US Marines intelligence officer, briefly held a Trump White House post as Africa director at the National Security Council. The CIA rejected Mr Townley's request for a top-level security clearance, forcing him out of the job. He was subsequently hired by SPG as its vice-president for defence and international affairs. SPG party Mr Daniels, now SPG's vice-president of public policy, served on the Trump inaugural committee after working as chief of staff for the Trump campaign in the electorally important state of Michigan. Politico, a Washington-based web news site, reported in January that SPG was co-hosting an inauguration party that was "expected to draw high-profile Trump backers". The Kenyan government has signed a one-year $1.2 million deal with a Washington lobbying firm with close ties to the Donald Trump team, according to US Justice Department documents.The Ministry of Foreign Affairs entered the agreement with the Sonoran Policy Group (SPG) on May 25, shows a lobbying disclosure form filed on June 6.TradeAn outline of the pact states that SPG "will provide US congressional and executive branch brand engagement to cement and deepen relations between Kenya and the US government as well as between the people of Kenya and the US".More specifically, SPG commits to "assisting the Embassy of Kenya achieve its objectives on the issues of tourism, trade, investment and Agoa".Agoa refers to the African Growth and Opportunity Act, a preferential trade initiative through which Kenya exports hundreds of millions of dollars of textiles duty-free to the US market.Trump employees SPG, headquartered in the state of Arizona, had maintained a comparatively low profile in the US capital until Donald Trump's election last November.That changed early this year when Stuart Jolly, a former national field director for Mr Trump's White House campaign, was appointed president of SPG.The firm also employed two other former Trump staffers: Robin Townley and Jacob Daniels.Mr Townley, a former US Marines intelligence officer, briefly held a Trump White House post as Africa director at the National Security Council. The CIA rejected Mr Townley's request for a top-level security clearance, forcing him out of the job. He was subsequently hired by SPG as its vice-president for defence and international affairs.SPG partyMr Daniels, now SPG's vice-president of public policy, served on the Trump inaugural committee after working as chief of staff for the Trump campaign in the electorally important state of Michigan.Politico, a Washington-based web news site, reported in January that SPG was co-hosting an inauguration party that was "expected to draw high-profile Trump backers".