There is a whirl of activity online at the moment as Kenyans try to find their old school mates to stand by them in case they are required to prove that they did in fact attend school and sat national examinations. It is all a lighthearted mockery of the serious situation in which the Governor of Mombasa, Ali Hassan Joho, has found himself. Police are investigating whether Mr Joho forged his Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) certificate as alleged by the Kenya National Examinations Council. He denies any wrongdoing but if these allegations are proven, Mr Joho could be at risk of criminal charges and could be stripped of the degrees he subsequently obtained at university. A person vying for the position of governor is required by law to hold a degree from a recognised university. This means Mr Joho could potentially be locked out of the race to defend his seat in the August general election. It is this last point that leads Mr Joho to describe the whole situation as an attempt to intimidate him. Mr Joho, who is a member of the opposition ODM party, is a fierce critic of the ruling Jubilee Party government and is never afraid to clash publicly with President Uhuru Kenyatta. It is unlikely that the learned men and women who drafted the 2010 Constitution of Kenya had Mr Joho in mind when they included a university degree requirement for holders of the office of president, governor and deputy governor. The thinking was that the president is the CEO of the country while governors are the CEOs of Kenya s 47 regional county governments. These positions require governance experience and a visionary leadership that is partly the product of a mind broadened by education. But perhaps the big issue the Constitution was trying to address was the culture of the 1980s and early 1990s, when the Kenyan president tended to be surrounded by half-educated sycophants. These handfuls of men who had the ear of the president were so powerful they could influence public policy on just about anything. The story is told of how in a bid to stem anti-government sentiments at public universities, one of these semi-literate leaders said: The government has enough resources to hunt down and arrest this Karo Makisi who is inciting the students to riot. The poor politician was convinced that Karl Marx was a man physically present at the universities and was causing trouble for the government. No-one had educated him on popular social, economic and political ideologies. Another of the inner-circle politicians who barely went to school is famously said to have proposed a great solution to the frequent unrest and clamour for political change taking place in public universities. There is a whirl of activity online at the moment as Kenyans try to find their old school mates to stand by them in case they are required to prove that they did in fact attend school and sat national examinations.It is all a lighthearted mockery of the serious situation in which the Governor of Mombasa, Ali Hassan Joho, has found himself.Police are investigating whether Mr Joho forged his Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) certificate as alleged by the Kenya National Examinations Council.He denies any wrongdoing but if these allegations are proven, Mr Joho could be at risk of criminal charges and could be stripped of the degrees he subsequently obtained at university.A person vying for the position of governor is required by law to hold a degree from a recognised university. This means Mr Joho could potentially be locked out of the race to defend his seat in the August general election. It is this last point that leads Mr Joho to describe the whole situation as an attempt to intimidate him.Mr Joho, who is a member of the opposition ODM party, is a fierce critic of the ruling Jubilee Party government and is never afraid to clash publicly with President Uhuru Kenyatta.It is unlikely that the learned men and women who drafted the 2010 Constitution of Kenya had Mr Joho in mind when they included a university degree requirement for holders of the office of president, governor and deputy governor.The thinking was that the president is the CEO of the country while governors are the CEOs of Kenya s 47 regional county governments.These positions require governance experience and a visionary leadership that is partly the product of a mind broadened by education.But perhaps the big issue the Constitution was trying to address was the culture of the 1980s and early 1990s, when the Kenyan president tended to be surrounded by half-educated sycophants.These handfuls of men who had the ear of the president were so powerful they could influence public policy on just about anything. The story is told of how in a bid to stem anti-government sentiments at public universities, one of these semi-literate leaders said: The government has enough resources to hunt down and arrest this Karo Makisi who is inciting the students to riot. The poor politician was convinced that Karl Marx was a man physically present at the universities and was causing trouble for the government.No-one had educated him on popular social, economic and political ideologies.Another of the inner-circle politicians who barely went to school is famously said to have proposed a great solution to the frequent unrest and clamour for political change taking place in public universities.