Small scale players in the leather industry have expressed fears that Ngozi Leather Park a 500-acre piece of land set aside by government to boost production will not be enough to accommodate them. The SMEs are concerned that the space allocated to them is inadequate and those left to operate outside the park will suffer industry disruption. Leather Articles Entrepreneurs Association chairman Maurice Omondi said there is a need for the consultations between stakeholders, Industrialisation Ministry and the Kenya Leather Development Council to ensure that small and medium enterprises are all accommodated at the Ngozi leather park. Kenya, through the Export Processing Zone Authority (EPZA) , will invest about $70 million in the leather industrial park, which will have a common tannery effluent pre-treatment plant, serviced plots, electricity and roads. According to the World Bank, the tanning sector s major difficulty is the lack of effluent facilities, which increases the environmental and health costs associated with processing finished leather. The SME park is based on the export processing zone model that offers investors a number of benefits including a 10-year tax holiday on remittances to non-residents, stamp duty, import duty and VAT exemption on raw materials and machinery. The leather footwear from EPZs is allowed full access to the Kenyan market duty and is VAT-free. The Kenyan leather industry has been battling a myriad challenges, among them low-cost leather footwear imports mainly from China and India and second-hand footwear, high production costs, the high cost of waste management amounting to $40 million and poor quality of finished leather products. Small scale players in the leather industry have expressed fears that Ngozi Leather Park a 500-acre piece of land set aside by government to boost production will not be enough to accommodate them.The SMEs are concerned that the space allocated to them is inadequate and those left to operate outside the park will suffer industry disruption. Leather Articles Entrepreneurs Association chairman Maurice Omondi said there is a need for the consultations between stakeholders, Industrialisation Ministry and the Kenya Leather Development Council to ensure that small and medium enterprises are all accommodated at the Ngozi leather park.Kenya, through the Export Processing Zone Authority (EPZA) , will invest about $70 million in the leather industrial park, which will have a common tannery effluent pre-treatment plant, serviced plots, electricity and roads.According to the World Bank, the tanning sector s major difficulty is the lack of effluent facilities, which increases the environmental and health costs associated with processing finished leather. The SME park is based on the export processing zone model that offers investors a number of benefits including a 10-year tax holiday on remittances to non-residents, stamp duty, import duty and VAT exemption on raw materials and machinery.The leather footwear from EPZs is allowed full access to the Kenyan market duty and is VAT-free. The Kenyan leather industry has been battling a myriad challenges, among them low-cost leather footwear imports mainly from China and India and second-hand footwear, high production costs, the high cost of waste management amounting to $40 million and poor quality of finished leather products.