Dairy farmers in the country are incurring losses as milk production overtakes demand, and the few processing plants in the country are only accepting a fraction of the milk despite operating below capacity. Daily milk production has surged to 1.8 million litres against an installed processing capacity of 350,000 litres per day. That capacity is spread between seven processors that are said to be absorbing only 120,000 litres daily. This has left farmers stranded with stock as processors reject a high percentage of supplies citing poor quality. The market for unprocessed milk and producers of by-products such as cheese and yoghurt is too small to absorb the surplus. Inyange is our largest buyer and it only takes grade one milk and only for morning collections. We have serious challenges finding a buyer for the milk produced in the evening, said Gahiga Gashumba, chairperson of the National Dairy Farmers Federation. The situation is the same across the country, especially in the remote areas of Gishwati, Rutsiro and Ngororero, which have relatively lower chances of accessing a wider formal milk market, said Mr Gashumba. Adoption of improved breeds and modern livestock farming coupled with the government s one cow per family programme have seen an increase in milk output and annual yields. However, production of varied dairy products, which would increase consumption has continued to face challenges over poor quality, leading to a ban of some businesses last week. The Rwanda Standards Board instructed restaurants, hotels and supermarkets to reject all products from more than 20 small-scale processors that did not meet required standards. Farmers estimate that only 35 per cent of the total milk produced daily can be absorbed in the formal market. Around 90,000 litres are going to Inyange Industries, which also owns Savannah Dairy subsidiary, and has set up several outlets for unpacked milk, which it has branded as Inyange Milk Zones. Other bulk buyers are Blessed Dairies, Zirakamwa Dairy, Masaka Farms, Gishwati Farms, Nyanza Dairy and Crystal Dairy Bugesera. Farmers in Nyagatare, one of the districts suffering a milk glut, said close to 2.4 million litres of milk worth more than Rwf133 million could not be sold from January to March this year due to lack of a buyer. The volume largely made up of an estimated 1.4 million litres of evening milk alongside rejected milk, is equal to more than half of the total production over the same period. Records show that only about three million litres of morning milk collections were sold. Innocent Zirikana, a dairy farmer in the remote Gishwati area said the bulk of losses occurs in the rainy season when farmers find it difficult to reach markets because of bad roads, unlike their counterparts in Gicumbi and Nyagatare. Zirikana adds that during the rainy season, prices plunge to as low as Rwf60 per litre, far below the cost of production. Officials from the Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources say insufficient investment by processors was to blame for the mismatch between production and market demand. Dairy farmers in the country are incurring losses as milk production overtakes demand, and the few processing plants in the country are only accepting a fraction of the milk despite operating below capacity.Daily milk production has surged to 1.8 million litres against an installed processing capacity of 350,000 litres per day. That capacity is spread between seven processors that are said to be absorbing only 120,000 litres daily.This has left farmers stranded with stock as processors reject a high percentage of supplies citing poor quality.The market for unprocessed milk and producers of by-products such as cheese and yoghurt is too small to absorb the surplus. Inyange is our largest buyer and it only takes grade one milk and only for morning collections. We have serious challenges finding a buyer for the milk produced in the evening, said Gahiga Gashumba, chairperson of the National Dairy Farmers Federation. The situation is the same across the country, especially in the remote areas of Gishwati, Rutsiro and Ngororero, which have relatively lower chances of accessing a wider formal milk market, said Mr Gashumba.Adoption of improved breeds and modern livestock farming coupled with the government s one cow per family programme have seen an increase in milk output and annual yields.However, production of varied dairy products, which would increase consumption has continued to face challenges over poor quality, leading to a ban of some businesses last week. The Rwanda Standards Board instructed restaurants, hotels and supermarkets to reject all products from more than 20 small-scale processors that did not meet required standards.Farmers estimate that only 35 per cent of the total milk produced daily can be absorbed in the formal market. Around 90,000 litres are going to Inyange Industries, which also owns Savannah Dairy subsidiary, and has set up several outlets for unpacked milk, which it has branded as Inyange Milk Zones.Other bulk buyers are Blessed Dairies, Zirakamwa Dairy, Masaka Farms, Gishwati Farms, Nyanza Dairy and Crystal Dairy Bugesera.Farmers in Nyagatare, one of the districts suffering a milk glut, said close to 2.4 million litres of milk worth more than Rwf133 million could not be sold from January to March this year due to lack of a buyer. The volume largely made up of an estimated 1.4 million litres of evening milk alongside rejected milk, is equal to more than half of the total production over the same period. Records show that only about three million litres of morning milk collections were sold.Innocent Zirikana, a dairy farmer in the remote Gishwati area said the bulk of losses occurs in the rainy season when farmers find it difficult to reach markets because of bad roads, unlike their counterparts in Gicumbi and Nyagatare. Zirikana adds that during the rainy season, prices plunge to as low as Rwf60 per litre, far below the cost of production.Officials from the Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources say insufficient investment by processors was to blame for the mismatch between production and market demand.