Strict control on forest harvesting and charcoal trade has done little in regard to boosting adoption of gas and alternative energy in the country as gas dealers decry stagnant demand. The country imposes strict harvesting regulations on owners of tree farms and tree products transporters hoping to not only curb overharvesting of trees for charcoal and firewood but also make majority of the population use other forms of energy. Very few people are switching to liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) while the charcoal business thrives and prices keep going up, said a Lake Petroleum agent doubling as LPG kit wholesaler. READ: Rwandan households slow to switch to gas despite tax incentives A spot-check in Kigali shows that while the price of gas only increased by between Rwf60 and Rwf100 to sell at Rwf1,000 from last year, the price of a sack of charcoal increased by between Rwf2,000 and Rwf3,500. In many parts of the country, charcoal retails at Rwf350 per kilogramme, meaning that a 45-kilogramme sack can sell for as much as Rwf15,750. LPG dealers in Kigali told Rwanda Today that hotels, institutions, and high-income urban dwellers use gas, while the majority of poor and middle-income households who are the majority, use firewood and charcoal. READ: Rwanda seeks to control public and private forests Many people are yet to use gas despite the government scrapping tax on LPG as an incentive to encourage uptake. Figures from the fourth integrated household living conditions survey (EICV) released by the National Institute of Statistics in 2014 shows only 0.2 per cent of Rwandans use gas or biogas while 83.3 per cent use firewood and 15.2 per cent use charcoal. Although use of firewood reduced from 86.3 per cent as per in EICV3 figures, charcoal use increased from 10.6 per cent. A section of the non-LPG user households had earlier decried the fact that the VAT tax incentive only applies to the gas and not to the kits such as cylinder, pipe and regulator which many find expensive. Related: Rwandans to access clean energy by 2020Clean cooking fuels too costly for Rwanda's poorUnemployment, costly energy push more people to charcoal Strict control on forest harvesting and charcoal trade has done little in regard to boosting adoption of gas and alternative energy in the country as gas dealers decry stagnant demand.The country imposes strict harvesting regulations on owners of tree farms and tree products transporters hoping to not only curb overharvesting of trees for charcoal and firewood but also make majority of the population use other forms of energy. Very few people are switching to liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) while the charcoal business thrives and prices keep going up, said a Lake Petroleum agent doubling as LPG kit wholesaler.READ: Rwandan households slow to switch to gas despite tax incentivesA spot-check in Kigali shows that while the price of gas only increased by between Rwf60 and Rwf100 to sell at Rwf1,000 from last year, the price of a sack of charcoal increased by between Rwf2,000 and Rwf3,500. In many parts of the country, charcoal retails at Rwf350 per kilogramme, meaning that a 45-kilogramme sack can sell for as much as Rwf15,750.LPG dealers in Kigali told Rwanda Today that hotels, institutions, and high-income urban dwellers use gas, while the majority of poor and middle-income households who are the majority, use firewood and charcoal. READ: Rwanda seeks to control public and private forestsMany people are yet to use gas despite the government scrapping tax on LPG as an incentive to encourage uptake.Figures from the fourth integrated household living conditions survey (EICV) released by the National Institute of Statistics in 2014 shows only 0.2 per cent of Rwandans use gas or biogas while 83.3 per cent use firewood and 15.2 per cent use charcoal.Although use of firewood reduced from 86.3 per cent as per in EICV3 figures, charcoal use increased from 10.6 per cent. A section of the non-LPG user households had earlier decried the fact that the VAT tax incentive only applies to the gas and not to the kits such as cylinder, pipe and regulator which many find expensive.Related: