As Kenya moves to vote, and to enter the second term for its new institutions (county governments, Senate, Commission on Revenue Allocation, etc), it is worth reflecting on how far we have institutionalised the new budget process. Those areas in which we have achieved at least partial institutionalisation are likely to see further progress in the next five years. In those areas where we have failed to institutionalise new norms and practices, the risk of moving backward, or starting literally from zero later this year, are high. In no particular order, here are some of the areas I think we should be most concerned about: The division of revenue: Sadly, this year s mediation efforts between the National Assembly and Senate failed completely, such that the National Assembly recently reintroduced its Bill with no changes. This means that the entire process is restarting, that county financing will be further delayed, and that our parliamentarians have decided to try to win the argument through force or exhaustion. It had appeared earlier that the division of revenue process was improving each year, as parliament managed to resolve tensions through mediation. The timing also seemed to be improving marginally. But the degree of collaboration has weakened not just within parliament; we are also seeing rifts that had narrowed begin to widen again between the Commission on Revenue Allocation and the National Treasury. The process of determining the division of revenue is less well-informed and collaborative than it appeared it would be by now. The next government will inherit this unfortunate legacy. County budget and economic forums (CBEF): The Public Finance Management Act requires governors to set up consultative bodies comprised of the county executive and members of the public in each county. These bodies should bring the major interest groups in the county together to build greater consensus around the budget. Most governors in 2013-17 got away with not setting these bodies up, or with not allowing them to work in any meaningful way. Most of the relevant interest groups also remain disorganised at county level. Whereas new CBEF members should find certain consultative practices in place when they arrive, they are instead likely to find almost nothing in place in the vast majority of counties. This means that CBEF will remain a fiction unless concerted action is taken by interest groups in the county from the first day that new governors are in place. County assembly fiscal analysts: In many county assemblies, the significance of the budget powers of the assembly were not well understood in 2013. This has certainly changed over time. However, there is a persistent misconception about the type of support that assemblies need to perform their roles effectively, one that can also be seen in some cases on the executive side. This misconception is that public-sector budgeting is the work of accountants. The reality, of course, is that public sector budgeting is as much about economics and politics as it is about accounting, and that analysing the executive s budget requires a set of skills that many bookkeepers lack. As Kenya moves to vote, and to enter the second term for its new institutions (county governments, Senate, Commission on Revenue Allocation, etc), it is worth reflecting on how far we have institutionalised the new budget process.Those areas in which we have achieved at least partial institutionalisation are likely to see further progress in the next five years. In those areas where we have failed to institutionalise new norms and practices, the risk of moving backward, or starting literally from zero later this year, are high. In no particular order, here are some of the areas I think we should be most concerned about:The division of revenue: Sadly, this year s mediation efforts between the National Assembly and Senate failed completely, such that the National Assembly recently reintroduced its Bill with no changes.This means that the entire process is restarting, that county financing will be further delayed, and that our parliamentarians have decided to try to win the argument through force or exhaustion.It had appeared earlier that the division of revenue process was improving each year, as parliament managed to resolve tensions through mediation. The timing also seemed to be improving marginally. But the degree of collaboration has weakened not just within parliament; we are also seeing rifts that had narrowed begin to widen again between the Commission on Revenue Allocation and the National Treasury. The process of determining the division of revenue is less well-informed and collaborative than it appeared it would be by now. The next government will inherit this unfortunate legacy.County budget and economic forums (CBEF): The Public Finance Management Act requires governors to set up consultative bodies comprised of the county executive and members of the public in each county. These bodies should bring the major interest groups in the county together to build greater consensus around the budget. Most governors in 2013-17 got away with not setting these bodies up, or with not allowing them to work in any meaningful way. Most of the relevant interest groups also remain disorganised at county level. Whereas new CBEF members should find certain consultative practices in place when they arrive, they are instead likely to find almost nothing in place in the vast majority of counties.This means that CBEF will remain a fiction unless concerted action is taken by interest groups in the county from the first day that new governors are in place.County assembly fiscal analysts: In many county assemblies, the significance of the budget powers of the assembly were not well understood in 2013. This has certainly changed over time. However, there is a persistent misconception about the type of support that assemblies need to perform their roles effectively, one that can also be seen in some cases on the executive side. This misconception is that public-sector budgeting is the work of accountants. The reality, of course, is that public sector budgeting is as much about economics and politics as it is about accounting, and that analysing the executive s budget requires a set of skills that many bookkeepers lack.