Gold mining firm Acacia expects to start commercial production of gold in western Kenya in 2022. The company has made a discovery of 1.3 million ounces/36 tonnes of gold in the Liranda corridor near Kakamega town. The discovery of 1.3 million ounces of gold is an encouraging start, said Acacia s chief executive Brad Gordon. For the project to be economically viable, we need deposits of at least two to three million ounces. Acacia Mining Plc will invest $12 million this year in exploration activities in western Kenya to exploit at least two to three million ounces of the precious metal. Mr Gordon said that the company will spend $10 million on exploration activities in the 30-kilometre square Liranda corridor, and a further $2 million in the surrounding area as the firm s special licence 213 covers about 1,600 square kilometres. Mining Cabinet Secretary Dan Kazungu said that the potential of Acacia s western Kenya project is exciting. It could ultimately lead to the creation of a gold mining industry that would benefit our economy and people, he said. In August 2016, Acacia, which has operations in Tanzania, Burkina Faso and Mali, bought a 49 per cent stake from a subsidiary of Lonmin plc for $5 million. Acacia is exploring Kakamega, Vihiga, Siaya and Kisumu counties. Meanwhile, Goldplat Plc has commissioned a new processing plant to expand gold production in the Kilimapesa mine near Kilgoris town in western Kenya at a cost of $2 million. Although it is modest in terms of production, it will help start sustainable profitability at Kilimapesa, said chief executive Gerard Kisbey-Green. The expansion is aimed at reducing the cost of operations and returning Kilimapesa mine to profitability. The company made a net loss of $892,731.31 in the year ended June 30, 2016. Gold mining firm Acacia expects to start commercial production of gold in western Kenya in 2022. The company has made a discovery of 1.3 million ounces/36 tonnes of gold in the Liranda corridor near Kakamega town. The discovery of 1.3 million ounces of gold is an encouraging start, said Acacia s chief executive Brad Gordon. For the project to be economically viable, we need deposits of at least two to three million ounces. Acacia Mining Plc will invest $12 million this year in exploration activities in western Kenya to exploit at least two to three million ounces of the precious metal. Mr Gordon said that the company will spend $10 million on exploration activities in the 30-kilometre square Liranda corridor, and a further $2 million in the surrounding area as the firm s special licence 213 covers about 1,600 square kilometres.Mining Cabinet Secretary Dan Kazungu said that the potential of Acacia s western Kenya project is exciting. It could ultimately lead to the creation of a gold mining industry that would benefit our economy and people, he said.In August 2016, Acacia, which has operations in Tanzania, Burkina Faso and Mali, bought a 49 per cent stake from a subsidiary of Lonmin plc for $5 million.Acacia is exploring Kakamega, Vihiga, Siaya and Kisumu counties.Meanwhile, Goldplat Plc has commissioned a new processing plant to expand gold production in the Kilimapesa mine near Kilgoris town in western Kenya at a cost of $2 million. Although it is modest in terms of production, it will help start sustainable profitability at Kilimapesa, said chief executive Gerard Kisbey-Green.The expansion is aimed at reducing the cost of operations and returning Kilimapesa mine to profitability. The company made a net loss of $892,731.31 in the year ended June 30, 2016.