The question of how much gold mining firms are taking out of Tanzania, and whether the country is getting its fair share of revenues, continued to draw divided opinion. This after a committee appointed by President John Magufuli released a report with shocking findings. To critics of the mining firms the committee, which found that the actual quantities of gold in gold-copper concentrate impounded in Dar es Salaam were way more than the declared figures, vindicates them for their long-held view that the firms are plundering the country s vast mineral resources, thanks to the contracts signed during the second, third and fourth regimes. However, those of a contrary view question the accuracy of the data and dismiss the unending probes into the industry as political drama aimed at gaining political mileage ahead of the 2020 general election. For almost a decade, mining is one of the key sectors that shape politics and elections, especially in Lake Zone, which is the basket of almost 50 per cent of the votes. Tanzania s five major gold mines are located in Lake Victoria gold belt, in the Lake Zone. Two probe committees formed by President Magufuli so far, bring the total number of probes since 2004 to seven. Yet, seven probes and dozens of recommendations later, the controversy is far from over. One man says he is prepared to write the new chapter by making foreign mining firms pay Tanzania its fair share of earnings from gold. That man is President Magufuli, who is now waiting for the second report before making what he termed last week as further major decisions that would determine the future of country s mining sector. Leading gold producer If the data presented by the committee chaired by the chief executive officer of Geological Survey of Tanzania, a government-owned agency, Prof Abdul Kadir Mruma is to be believed, then Tanzania could as well be among the leading gold producers in the world. The committee established that each container of the 227 carried a minimum of 28.1 kilogrammes of gold. This makes a total of 7,800kg (7.8 tonnes) of gold. Acacia produces and exports an average of 4,000 containers a year, or 333 containers each month. From the committee s findings, it would mean Acacia exports 111.88 metric tonnes of gold annually from its two goldmines, Buzwagi and Bulyanhulu, located in Kahama Town, in the Lake Victoria gold belt. In geological terms, this is equivalent to 1,500,000 ounces of gold valued at $1.89 billion a year, according to the current market price, which averages $1,260 per ounce. The question of how much gold mining firms are taking out of Tanzania, and whether the country is getting its fair share of revenues, continued to draw divided opinion.This after a committee appointed by President John Magufuli released a report with shocking findings.To critics of the mining firms the committee, which found that the actual quantities of gold in gold-copper concentrate impounded in Dar es Salaam were way more than the declared figures, vindicates them for their long-held view that the firms are plundering the country s vast mineral resources, thanks to the contracts signed during the second, third and fourth regimes.However, those of a contrary view question the accuracy of the data and dismiss the unending probes into the industry as political drama aimed at gaining political mileage ahead of the 2020 general election. For almost a decade, mining is one of the key sectors that shape politics and elections, especially in Lake Zone, which is the basket of almost 50 per cent of the votes. Tanzania s five major gold mines are located in Lake Victoria gold belt, in the Lake Zone.Two probe committees formed by President Magufuli so far, bring the total number of probes since 2004 to seven.Yet, seven probes and dozens of recommendations later, the controversy is far from over. One man says he is prepared to write the new chapter by making foreign mining firms pay Tanzania its fair share of earnings from gold. That man is President Magufuli, who is now waiting for the second report before making what he termed last week as further major decisions that would determine the future of country s mining sector.Leading gold producerIf the data presented by the committee chaired by the chief executive officer of Geological Survey of Tanzania, a government-owned agency, Prof Abdul Kadir Mruma is to be believed, then Tanzania could as well be among the leading gold producers in the world.The committee established that each container of the 227 carried a minimum of 28.1 kilogrammes of gold. This makes a total of 7,800kg (7.8 tonnes) of gold. Acacia produces and exports an average of 4,000 containers a year, or 333 containers each month.From the committee s findings, it would mean Acacia exports 111.88 metric tonnes of gold annually from its two goldmines, Buzwagi and Bulyanhulu, located in Kahama Town, in the Lake Victoria gold belt. In geological terms, this is equivalent to 1,500,000 ounces of gold valued at $1.89 billion a year, according to the current market price, which averages $1,260 per ounce.