Kenya's high court has struck down legal amendments that critics said curbed the telecom regulator's ability to manage competition in the sector. The court's decision gives the regulator, the Communications Authority of Kenya, a freer hand to oversee the sector at a time of intense debate over whether or not the country's biggest operator, Safaricom, has too much market power. The government changed sections of the law in December 2015, requiring the Communications Authority to consult Kenya's Competition Authority, and the communications minister, before punishing any operator for abuse of dominance. The government argued at the time that it wanted to enhance decision-making on dominance issues by bringing in another body with expertise on competition matters. The Communications Authority said however that the move undermined its independence and would discourage investment in the sector because it restricted its ability to manage competition. READ: Kenya: Regulator warns telcos on false user numbers In a ruling issued this week and seen by Reuters on Thursday, the high court said the changes had a major impact and could therefore not be allowed to stand. It was ruling on a case brought by a private citizen challenging the amendments. The Communications Authority did not respond immediately to a request for comment. The Minister for Information and Communication, Joe Mucheru, said the government would operate within the original law as ordered by the court. "We will follow the law. We don't have a problem following the law," he told Reuters, adding they were already working with the regulator and operators to boost competition in the sector. He cited a move requiring operators to interconnect their mobile financial services systems, allowing users on various networks to move money seamlessly, which is expected to start next month. Smaller operators in Kenya's telecom sector have long alleged unfair competition, saying Safaricom is too dominant. Safaricom rejects the accusations. READ: Safaricom accused of unfairness The Communications Authority commissioned a study on competition in the sector, whose leaked draft earlier this year showed Safaricom could be broken up due to its size and dominance of the mobile financial services market with its M-Pesa platform. READ: Safaricom faces M-Pesa spin off in proposed law Kenya's high court has struck down legal amendments that critics said curbed the telecom regulator's ability to manage competition in the sector.The court's decision gives the regulator, the Communications Authority of Kenya, a freer hand to oversee the sector at a time of intense debate over whether or not the country's biggest operator, Safaricom, has too much market power.The government changed sections of the law in December 2015, requiring the Communications Authority to consult Kenya's Competition Authority, and the communications minister, before punishing any operator for abuse of dominance.The government argued at the time that it wanted to enhance decision-making on dominance issues by bringing in another body with expertise on competition matters.The Communications Authority said however that the move undermined its independence and would discourage investment in the sector because it restricted its ability to manage competition.READ: Kenya: Regulator warns telcos on false user numbersIn a ruling issued this week and seen by Reuters on Thursday, the high court said the changes had a major impact and could therefore not be allowed to stand. It was ruling on a case brought by a private citizen challenging the amendments.The Communications Authority did not respond immediately to a request for comment.The Minister for Information and Communication, Joe Mucheru, said the government would operate within the original law as ordered by the court."We will follow the law. We don't have a problem following the law," he told Reuters, adding they were already working with the regulator and operators to boost competition in the sector.He cited a move requiring operators to interconnect their mobile financial services systems, allowing users on various networks to move money seamlessly, which is expected to start next month.Smaller operators in Kenya's telecom sector have long alleged unfair competition, saying Safaricom is too dominant. Safaricom rejects the accusations.READ: Safaricom accused of unfairnessThe Communications Authority commissioned a study on competition in the sector, whose leaked draft earlier this year showed Safaricom could be broken up due to its size and dominance of the mobile financial services market with its M-Pesa platform.READ: Safaricom faces M-Pesa spin off in proposed law