A study in 2016 by the University of Wisconsin-Madison shows that just 22 per cent of children s books published in American were written by, or featured, people of colour. While there are no exact figures for East Africa, but there are relatively few children s books with an African context judging from the overwhelming amount of Western literature in local bookshops. However, some authors are bridging the gap. The Forever Tree The Forever Tree by Kenyan Wangari Grace. PHOTO| FILE Written by Kenyan Wangari Grace, The Forever Tree adopts the African storytelling tradition. It is the dry season, food is scarce and the animals are hungry. An old tortoise called Opuk has dreamed about a special tree that never runs out of fruit. The other animals are determined to find this tree and they make repeated journeys into the deep forest, but they all fail. The lesson is about unity, patience and not judging others by external appearance. The story has dynamic imagery and repetitive phrases, which lend themselves to animation and read-aloud sessions. I wanted to write a story that I would enjoy reading, says Wangari. I love tongue twisters so I could not resist applying that in the story. Wangari, who comes from a performing arts background, often presents her book at storytelling gatherings for school children. The book is ideal for children aged six to eight, but it can be read out to younger children who will also enjoy the illustrations. Attack of the Shidas Attack of the Shidas is written by Kenyan author and publisher Muthoni Garland, under the pen name Muthoni Muchemi. Three young friends from different ethnic groups live in a desert town in the far north. One day, the town s borehole starts running dry because monsters, called Shidas (meaning trouble), are sucking out the water at night. Only the children realise what is happening, because they possess special powers that allow them to recognise the alien water thieves. The grown-ups don t believe the children and start blaming the problem on their neighbours from different regions. The once peaceful town is soon torn apart by accusations and infighting. The children must find a way to stop the Shidas before the well runs dry and their town is destroyed by conflict. Attack of the Shidas: AKA Save the Planet is written by Kenyan author and publisher Muthoni Garland, under the pen name Muthoni Muchemi. Through the experiences of the children, we see how misunderstanding can divide people along tribal lines and how the improper use of resources can spark tension among communities. A study in 2016 by the University of Wisconsin-Madison shows that just 22 per cent of children s books published in American were written by, or featured, people of colour. While there are no exact figures for East Africa, but there are relatively few children s books with an African context judging from the overwhelming amount of Western literature in local bookshops. However, some authors are bridging the gap.The Forever TreeThe Forever Tree by Kenyan Wangari Grace. PHOTO| FILE Written by Kenyan Wangari Grace, The Forever Tree adopts the African storytelling tradition. It is the dry season, food is scarce and the animals are hungry. An old tortoise called Opuk has dreamed about a special tree that never runs out of fruit. The other animals are determined to find this tree and they make repeated journeys into the deep forest, but they all fail. The lesson is about unity, patience and not judging others by external appearance. The story has dynamic imagery and repetitive phrases, which lend themselves to animation and read-aloud sessions. I wanted to write a story that I would enjoy reading, says Wangari. I love tongue twisters so I could not resist applying that in the story. Wangari, who comes from a performing arts background, often presents her book at storytelling gatherings for school children. The book is ideal for children aged six to eight, but it can be read out to younger children who will also enjoy the illustrations. Attack of the ShidasAttack of the Shidas is written by Kenyan author and publisher Muthoni Garland, under the pen name Muthoni Muchemi. Three young friends from different ethnic groups live in a desert town in the far north. One day, the town s borehole starts running dry because monsters, called Shidas (meaning trouble), are sucking out the water at night. Only the children realise what is happening, because they possess special powers that allow them to recognise the alien water thieves. The grown-ups don t believe the children and start blaming the problem on their neighbours from different regions. The once peaceful town is soon torn apart by accusations and infighting. The children must find a way to stop the Shidas before the well runs dry and their town is destroyed by conflict. Attack of the Shidas: AKA Save the Planet is written by Kenyan author and publisher Muthoni Garland, under the pen name Muthoni Muchemi. Through the experiences of the children, we see how misunderstanding can divide people along tribal lines and how the improper use of resources can spark tension among communities.