These are good times for people who enjoy nostalgia. The horn-rimmed glasses, the rediscovery of vinyl and acoustic music, the whiffs of global nuclear annihilation and strange dealings between Russia and America. What s not to love? I am holding out for feminism to join the retro-fabulous bandwagon and come into fashion again. Reinvented feminism, of course: New and improved with 80 per cent more shoulder pads. Maybe that would help to recruit more people to the cause. I am writing this in the wake of Pearl Pillay s Men Are Trash article, about the aftermath of the brutal murder of a woman in South Africa. It is not an easy read, and honestly I got stuck at the title the first time around. Took two tries to grasp how Ms Pillay was offering a brutal description of patriarchy in its entirety. Everyone gets indicted in it, made complicit in a society where women are subject to violence in the extreme. She may be talking about South Africa but she s really talking quite intimately to all of us. Assault against the patriarchy And so as a feminist who is more or less bound to support her assault against the patriarchy, there are two things to highlight here. First: Why is it that this topic only gets attention when the most virulent antagonistic stance is projected? Second the best thing about this article is that it opens the door not a lot but enough for a discussion of the intimacy of patriarchy. We need to talk about the intimacy of patriarchy. In fact, we need more feminists to wade out into the dangerous currents of talking about how the very victims of patriarchy support it. So let me tell you a story to illustrate that. Once upon a time I was just verging on young-ladyhood when the environment around me changed overnight. The same boys I used to play soccer with and catch tadpoles with over school holidays began to gather sullenly around the local shop to mutter incomprehensibly under their breath. Fine, whatever. Until the first time I got cat-called and given a filthy suggestion by my former playmates, admittedly in a most nervous manner. These are good times for people who enjoy nostalgia. The horn-rimmed glasses, the rediscovery of vinyl and acoustic music, the whiffs of global nuclear annihilation and strange dealings between Russia and America.What s not to love? I am holding out for feminism to join the retro-fabulous bandwagon and come into fashion again. Reinvented feminism, of course: New and improved with 80 per cent more shoulder pads. Maybe that would help to recruit more people to the cause. I am writing this in the wake of Pearl Pillay s Men Are Trash article, about the aftermath of the brutal murder of a woman in South Africa. It is not an easy read, and honestly I got stuck at the title the first time around. Took two tries to grasp how Ms Pillay was offering a brutal description of patriarchy in its entirety. Everyone gets indicted in it, made complicit in a society where women are subject to violence in the extreme. She may be talking about South Africa but she s really talking quite intimately to all of us. Assault against the patriarchyAnd so as a feminist who is more or less bound to support her assault against the patriarchy, there are two things to highlight here.First: Why is it that this topic only gets attention when the most virulent antagonistic stance is projected? Second the best thing about this article is that it opens the door not a lot but enough for a discussion of the intimacy of patriarchy. We need to talk about the intimacy of patriarchy. In fact, we need more feminists to wade out into the dangerous currents of talking about how the very victims of patriarchy support it. So let me tell you a story to illustrate that. Once upon a time I was just verging on young-ladyhood when the environment around me changed overnight. The same boys I used to play soccer with and catch tadpoles with over school holidays began to gather sullenly around the local shop to mutter incomprehensibly under their breath. Fine, whatever. Until the first time I got cat-called and given a filthy suggestion by my former playmates, admittedly in a most nervous manner.