Justice Catherine Bamugemereire has the onerous task of probing and providing answers for one of Uganda s most intricate issues land. After months of waiting, the judge unveiled her seven-member Commission of Inquiry on Wednesday, to look into land matters. Appointed by President Museveni three months ago, the Commission consists of former Attorney-General Freddie Ruhindi, Uganda s first female surveyor Ms Joyce Gunze Habaasa, a Makerere University law lecturer Dr Rose Nakayi, a seasoned businessman and former Minister in Buganda kingdom Robert Sebunya and two other eminent citizens Mary Oduka Ochan who for years worked with the Irish Embassy in Nairobi and Kampala and Mr George Baroza Tinkamanyire. The inquiry comes at a time of heightened land conflicts across the country. Whether it will provide the necessary answers remains to be seen. There exist multiple land tenure systems; a law passed in 1998 after the 1995 Constitution that vested land in the people , a land policy passed only in 2013 some 15 years after the land law, a colonial legacy that snatched vested thousands of hectares into institutional and private ownership when actual owners still occupied the land especially in Buganda. Also, vast tracts of apparent unutilised lands especially in the northern part of the country where traditional communal land ownership and two decades of war kept the people off their land saw the displaced subsist in camps for internally displaced. These combination of factors has created a combustible environment that occasionally explodes into physical violence as occupiers of the land try to fight off suspected land grabbers who might in some cases, even the genuine owners. This is the magnitude of the problem the commission faces as it starts its work. READ: Land grabbing, poor administration of customary tenure system fuel conflicts in Uganda Buganda kingdom The powerful kingdom of Buganda owns vast tracts of land in the country s central region, nearly all of which is occupied by people who have traditionally lived and survived off it for generations. The kingdom recently rolled out a campaign to register bibanja holders and has promised lease hold titles. Speaking at the launch of the Commission, Lands Minister Betty Amongi voiced her suspicions about the Buganda initiative to register occupants of both the official and private Mailo that the kingdom holds. This campaign of leasing land to Ugandans, land on which their forefathers have lived is something I have been thinking about. Land should be leased to foreigners, not Ugandans whose forefathers have occupied it for decades, Amongi said. Just last month, agitated peasants set ablaze an earth mover that was mowing down their crops in Luwero, claiming they were Bibanja tenants on what is locally known as the Kabaka s land. In neighbouring Mukono, a uniformed soldier and policemen that had accompanied one claimant to a piece of land were attacked by an angry mob and chased away. Prominent musician Kyagulanyi Sentamu a.k.a. Bobi Wine has also found himself in a tenancy dispute with the Kabaka s government after it reneged on a lease it had granted him in Entebbe a few years ago. Justice Catherine Bamugemereire has the onerous task of probing and providing answers for one of Uganda s most intricate issues land. After months of waiting, the judge unveiled her seven-member Commission of Inquiry on Wednesday, to look into land matters. Appointed by President Museveni three months ago, the Commission consists of former Attorney-General Freddie Ruhindi, Uganda s first female surveyor Ms Joyce Gunze Habaasa, a Makerere University law lecturer Dr Rose Nakayi, a seasoned businessman and former Minister in Buganda kingdom Robert Sebunya and two other eminent citizens Mary Oduka Ochan who for years worked with the Irish Embassy in Nairobi and Kampala and Mr George Baroza Tinkamanyire.The inquiry comes at a time of heightened land conflicts across the country. Whether it will provide the necessary answers remains to be seen. There exist multiple land tenure systems; a law passed in 1998 after the 1995 Constitution that vested land in the people , a land policy passed only in 2013 some 15 years after the land law, a colonial legacy that snatched vested thousands of hectares into institutional and private ownership when actual owners still occupied the land especially in Buganda.Also, vast tracts of apparent unutilised lands especially in the northern part of the country where traditional communal land ownership and two decades of war kept the people off their land saw the displaced subsist in camps for internally displaced.These combination of factors has created a combustible environment that occasionally explodes into physical violence as occupiers of the land try to fight off suspected land grabbers who might in some cases, even the genuine owners.This is the magnitude of the problem the commission faces as it starts its work. READ: Land grabbing, poor administration of customary tenure system fuel conflicts in UgandaBuganda kingdomThe powerful kingdom of Buganda owns vast tracts of land in the country s central region, nearly all of which is occupied by people who have traditionally lived and survived off it for generations. The kingdom recently rolled out a campaign to register bibanja holders and has promised lease hold titles. Speaking at the launch of the Commission, Lands Minister Betty Amongi voiced her suspicions about the Buganda initiative to register occupants of both the official and private Mailo that the kingdom holds. This campaign of leasing land to Ugandans, land on which their forefathers have lived is something I have been thinking about. Land should be leased to foreigners, not Ugandans whose forefathers have occupied it for decades, Amongi said. Just last month, agitated peasants set ablaze an earth mover that was mowing down their crops in Luwero, claiming they were Bibanja tenants on what is locally known as the Kabaka s land. In neighbouring Mukono, a uniformed soldier and policemen that had accompanied one claimant to a piece of land were attacked by an angry mob and chased away.Prominent musician Kyagulanyi Sentamu a.k.a. Bobi Wine has also found himself in a tenancy dispute with the Kabaka s government after it reneged on a lease it had granted him in Entebbe a few years ago.