Standing on the steep rocky shores of Lake Tanganyika at sunset, looking out at fishermen heading out for their nightly lamp-boat fishing trips, it s easy to imagine this immense 32,900 square kilometres of water as serene and unchanging. Located in the western branch of the great African Rift Valley, the lake divided among four countries: Tanzania, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Burundi, and Zambia. It is one of the oldest lakes in the world, probably dating back about 10 million years. That expanse of geological time has permitted literally hundreds of unusual species of fish and invertebrates to evolve in isolation organisms that are unique among the world s lakes. Every day millions of people rely on the lake s riches. But despite being a world class reservoir of biodiversity, food and economic activity, the lake is changing rapidly and may be facing a turbulent future. Threatened lake of 2017 Lake Tanganyika was recently declared the Threatened Lake of 2017 adversely affected by human activity in the form of climate change, deforestation, overfishing and hydrocarbon exploitation. Beginning in the late 1980s, scientists studying the lake began to notice significant and concerning changes caused by human activity. But at the time, worldwide attention was focused on their other African Great Lakes, particularly Lake Victoria, where evidence was beginning to emerge of the enormous impact the Nile Perch an introduced species was having. The problems in Tanganyika were somewhat different. Fortunately, no major exotic species introductions have occurred up to now. Instead, evidence shows that underwater habitat degradation is taking place adjacent to hill slopes. They are being rapidly deforested converted to agricultural lands or for urban expansion in the fast growing population centres around the lake. This activity has led to a rapid increase in the amount of loose sand and mud being washed into the water, is smothering the lake floor. The biodiversity of Lake Tanganyika can be imagined like a thin bathtub ring. It hugs the shallow zones around a deep and steep bottomed lake, up to 1,470 metres in its deepest parts. The hundreds of species that inhabit the sunlit shallows give way to a dark expanse of water lacking oxygen and, so, animal life. This narrow strip of extraordinary biodiversity is on the frontline. Eroded sediments are being carried into the lake, affecting this strip. Unsustainable growth Researchers have begun to document where the impact is being felt. They are also looking back in time by collecting sediment cores with fossils of the many endemic animals to see when the impact was first felt. They have found that some heavily populated regions lost much of their diversity more than 150 years ago. Other regions, particularly in the more southerly past of the lake, are seeing these effects unfold only in recent decades. Standing on the steep rocky shores of Lake Tanganyika at sunset, looking out at fishermen heading out for their nightly lamp-boat fishing trips, it s easy to imagine this immense 32,900 square kilometres of water as serene and unchanging.Located in the western branch of the great African Rift Valley, the lake divided among four countries: Tanzania, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Burundi, and Zambia. It is one of the oldest lakes in the world, probably dating back about 10 million years.That expanse of geological time has permitted literally hundreds of unusual species of fish and invertebrates to evolve in isolation organisms that are unique among the world s lakes. Every day millions of people rely on the lake s riches.But despite being a world class reservoir of biodiversity, food and economic activity, the lake is changing rapidly and may be facing a turbulent future.Threatened lake of 2017Lake Tanganyika was recently declared the Threatened Lake of 2017 adversely affected by human activity in the form of climate change, deforestation, overfishing and hydrocarbon exploitation.Beginning in the late 1980s, scientists studying the lake began to notice significant and concerning changes caused by human activity.But at the time, worldwide attention was focused on their other African Great Lakes, particularly Lake Victoria, where evidence was beginning to emerge of the enormous impact the Nile Perch an introduced species was having.The problems in Tanganyika were somewhat different.Fortunately, no major exotic species introductions have occurred up to now. Instead, evidence shows that underwater habitat degradation is taking place adjacent to hill slopes. They are being rapidly deforested converted to agricultural lands or for urban expansion in the fast growing population centres around the lake. This activity has led to a rapid increase in the amount of loose sand and mud being washed into the water, is smothering the lake floor.The biodiversity of Lake Tanganyika can be imagined like a thin bathtub ring. It hugs the shallow zones around a deep and steep bottomed lake, up to 1,470 metres in its deepest parts. The hundreds of species that inhabit the sunlit shallows give way to a dark expanse of water lacking oxygen and, so, animal life.This narrow strip of extraordinary biodiversity is on the frontline. Eroded sediments are being carried into the lake, affecting this strip.Unsustainable growthResearchers have begun to document where the impact is being felt. They are also looking back in time by collecting sediment cores with fossils of the many endemic animals to see when the impact was first felt.They have found that some heavily populated regions lost much of their diversity more than 150 years ago. Other regions, particularly in the more southerly past of the lake, are seeing these effects unfold only in recent decades.