China and Europe pledged on Friday to unite to save what German Chancellor Angela Merkel called "our Mother Earth", standing firmly against President Donald Trump's decision to take the United States out of the Paris climate change pact. Others, including India, signalled their commitment to the accord, but Russian President Vladimir Putin said that while the United States should have remained in the 2015 deal, he would not judge Trump, and warned about the accord's impact on jobs and poverty. "You shouldn't make a noise about this, but should create the conditions for joint work," Putin said at an economic forum, adding that Trump had said he wanted to renegotiate a new deal. "If such a major emitter as the US is not going to cooperate entirely then it won't be possible to agree any deal in this area," Putin said. The Kremlin leader said that "in my view it was possible (for the US) not to leave the Paris agreement because it is a framework deal, and it was possible to change the US obligations inside the framework of these agreements." "But what has been said has been said. And we need to think what to do further," he said. Tapping into the "America First" message he used on the election trail, Trump announced the withdrawal on Thursday, saying that participating would undermine the US economy, wipe out US jobs, weaken American national sovereignty and put the country at a permanent disadvantage to others. Dismay and anger There was a mix of dismay and anger across the world. Former UN Secretary General Kofi Annan said that the US withdrawal from the Paris agreement should challenge other countries "to increase their efforts to address climate change." Mr Annan, a member of The Elders, said no single country could dismantle the agreement which was born out of a desire "for co-operative solutions to a global problem." The Elders, a group formed by Nelson Mandela to promote peace and human rights around the world, called on US businesses and state authorities to take action where the federal government has withdrawn. Ghana's former President John Mahama said Trump's decision was "unbelievable" and a "very sad day for global co-operation". Mr Mahama was among world leaders who backed the historic agreement, promising to implement measures to curtail global warming. Others, including Zimbabwe, said poor nations would bear the brunt of climate change. China and Europe pledged on Friday to unite to save what German Chancellor Angela Merkel called "our Mother Earth", standing firmly against President Donald Trump's decision to take the United States out of the Paris climate change pact.Others, including India, signalled their commitment to the accord, but Russian President Vladimir Putin said that while the United States should have remained in the 2015 deal, he would not judge Trump, and warned about the accord's impact on jobs and poverty."You shouldn't make a noise about this, but should create the conditions for joint work," Putin said at an economic forum, adding that Trump had said he wanted to renegotiate a new deal. "If such a major emitter as the US is not going to cooperate entirely then it won't be possible to agree any deal in this area," Putin said.The Kremlin leader said that "in my view it was possible (for the US) not to leave the Paris agreement because it is a framework deal, and it was possible to change the US obligations inside the framework of these agreements.""But what has been said has been said. And we need to think what to do further," he said. Tapping into the "America First" message he used on the election trail, Trump announced the withdrawal on Thursday, saying that participating would undermine the US economy, wipe out US jobs, weaken American national sovereignty and put the country at a permanent disadvantage to others.Dismay and angerThere was a mix of dismay and anger across the world.Former UN Secretary General Kofi Annan said that the US withdrawal from the Paris agreement should challenge other countries "to increase their efforts to address climate change."Mr Annan, a member of The Elders, said no single country could dismantle the agreement which was born out of a desire "for co-operative solutions to a global problem."The Elders, a group formed by Nelson Mandela to promote peace and human rights around the world, called on US businesses and state authorities to take action where the federal government has withdrawn.Ghana's former President John Mahama said Trump's decision was "unbelievable" and a "very sad day for global co-operation".Mr Mahama was among world leaders who backed the historic agreement, promising to implement measures to curtail global warming.Others, including Zimbabwe, said poor nations would bear the brunt of climate change.