US President Donald Trump s announcement that America is withdrawing from the 2015 Paris climate agreement could have disastrous consequences for Africa s environment and the poor. While it may be too early to know exactly just how things will unfold in Africa, the immediate concern has to be the impact on the Green Climate Fund. The Fund calls for developed countries to send $100 billion to developing nations by 2020 to assist in countering climate change. The US agreed to contribute $3 billion to the fund, and so far has paid $1 billion. Climate change poses an existential threat to Africa. Although the continent produces two per cent of the annual greenhouse gas emissions, it bears the brunt of the negative effects of climate change and global warming. The UN s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) says Africa is expected to warm up to one-and-a-half times faster than the global average, with devastating results. The current famine and food shortages in the Horn of Africa region, as well as poor harvests that have led to higher food prices in Kenya and other parts of East Africa can be attributed to changing weather patterns brought about by climate change. Without action it will only get worse. IPCC has warned of a 30 per cent drop in maize yields in Zimbabwe and Zambia by 2050 due to climate change. One study, using IPCC data, found that Chad, Niger and Zambia could lose their entire farming sectors by 2100 if global warming continues at its current pace. Unpredictable rainfall patterns, prolonged droughts, flooding and other outcomes of climate change will put the lives of millions of Africans, many of whom still live off the land, at risk. READ: Why the Horn of Africa is starving again President Trump s about-turn on the Paris Accord should serve as a wake-up call for Africans to start taking climate change into our own hands. If those that pollute the world s environment are not willing to step up and help clean it we Africans must roll up our sleeves and do it ourselves. Thankfully we are not alone. China, the world s biggest polluter, says it is committed to the Paris Accord regardless of how other countries climate policies change. Similarly, the European Union has said it will defend the clean energy transition despite America s decision. African leaders, too, should reconfirm their commitment to the Paris Accord. Environmental conservation is not a handicap to economic growth; rather, it is the bedrock of sustainable development. READ: World leaders pledge unity after Trump dumps climate pact Clean energy Advances in clean energy sources like wind, solar and hydro-electricity, coupled with exponential reductions in the cost of their production mean that Africa does not have to face zero-sum choices in powering its industries or lighting up its homes. The Congo River Basin, for instance, is a critical water catchment area for Africa, and, together with the Amazon, serving as one of the world s two lungs or carbon sinks. US President Donald Trump s announcement that America is withdrawing from the 2015 Paris climate agreement could have disastrous consequences for Africa s environment and the poor.While it may be too early to know exactly just how things will unfold in Africa, the immediate concern has to be the impact on the Green Climate Fund.The Fund calls for developed countries to send $100 billion to developing nations by 2020 to assist in countering climate change. The US agreed to contribute $3 billion to the fund, and so far has paid $1 billion.Climate change poses an existential threat to Africa. Although the continent produces two per cent of the annual greenhouse gas emissions, it bears the brunt of the negative effects of climate change and global warming.The UN s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) says Africa is expected to warm up to one-and-a-half times faster than the global average, with devastating results. The current famine and food shortages in the Horn of Africa region, as well as poor harvests that have led to higher food prices in Kenya and other parts of East Africa can be attributed to changing weather patterns brought about by climate change.Without action it will only get worse. IPCC has warned of a 30 per cent drop in maize yields in Zimbabwe and Zambia by 2050 due to climate change. One study, using IPCC data, found that Chad, Niger and Zambia could lose their entire farming sectors by 2100 if global warming continues at its current pace.Unpredictable rainfall patterns, prolonged droughts, flooding and other outcomes of climate change will put the lives of millions of Africans, many of whom still live off the land, at risk.READ: Why the Horn of Africa is starving againPresident Trump s about-turn on the Paris Accord should serve as a wake-up call for Africans to start taking climate change into our own hands. If those that pollute the world s environment are not willing to step up and help clean it we Africans must roll up our sleeves and do it ourselves.Thankfully we are not alone. China, the world s biggest polluter, says it is committed to the Paris Accord regardless of how other countries climate policies change. Similarly, the European Union has said it will defend the clean energy transition despite America s decision.African leaders, too, should reconfirm their commitment to the Paris Accord. Environmental conservation is not a handicap to economic growth; rather, it is the bedrock of sustainable development.READ: World leaders pledge unity after Trump dumps climate pactClean energy Advances in clean energy sources like wind, solar and hydro-electricity, coupled with exponential reductions in the cost of their production mean that Africa does not have to face zero-sum choices in powering its industries or lighting up its homes. The Congo River Basin, for instance, is a critical water catchment area for Africa, and, together with the Amazon, serving as one of the world s two lungs or carbon sinks.