It s interesting to think about whom we choose to honour publicly. Because doing so tells us so much about what we ourselves value. Here in Kenya, we ve a plethora of private forms of recognition. My two personal favourites include the Footprints Press coffee table book series, which continues to focus on the biographies of notable Kenyans who are extremely diverse, being from the public, private and civic sectors. And, launched last year, the National Coalition on Human Rights Defenders awards for community-level and lifetime achievements. Our public awards the Elders of the Burning Spear, for example have tended, with few exceptions, to go to civil servants and private sector personalities aligned to our ruling political parties. The few exceptions were following our transition of 2002, where stalwarts from the pro-democracy, Second Liberation were recognised, together with Independence stalwarts from the First Liberation previously shunted to the side. The lists are always worth reading, even if only to see who s in and who s out according to the current powers that be. Since there s currently no public value attached to advancing freedom and justice, it s appropriate that the private sector demonstrates that it values such efforts. Which is why, on the eve of the end of his term as United Nations Special Rapporteur for Freedom of Association and Peaceful Assembly, the Kenya Human Rights Commission last week held a dinner in honour of Maina Kiai, its founding executive director. The dinner was full of those from the constitutional, pro-democracy and human-rights movements of the 1990s. Including not just those whose struggles had been brought to the fore by those movements the Mau Mau war veterans and the Nyayo House torture survivors, for example. Or those who continue to benefit from those movements now the Makonde community, for example. But also those now in public and political office, whose remarks were among the most interesting, speaking not just to Maina Kiai s consistency and courage, but also to our failures to maintain an inside/out strategy for advancing freedom and justice. Why honour Maina Kiai? Because of his constantly pushing the boundaries in favour of freedom and justice. At the KHRC in the 1990s, then home and umbrella to the constitutional, pro-democracy and human rights movements, for finding a place for the previously disenfranchised and exiled students who d challenged the first Kenyatta and Moi dictatorships. For beginning the documentation of what had happened to Kenyans under those dictatorships from northern Kenya to the Coast. For being creative about raising questions about police behaviour, bringing the coffins of Kenyans killed by the police literally to their doorstep. As the first chair of the Kenya National Human Rights Commission; for speaking truth to power and demonstrating it is possible to be a public institution that is publicly funded and yet stand ups to the excesses of the executive. For making the fullest use of the KNCHR s mandate instituting a public inquiry into extrajudicial executions, for example. For making a difference. L. Muthoni Wanyeki is Amnesty International s regional director for East Africa, the Horn and the Great Lakes It s interesting to think about whom we choose to honour publicly. Because doing so tells us so much about what we ourselves value.Here in Kenya, we ve a plethora of private forms of recognition. My two personal favourites include the Footprints Press coffee table book series, which continues to focus on the biographies of notable Kenyans who are extremely diverse, being from the public, private and civic sectors. And, launched last year, the National Coalition on Human Rights Defenders awards for community-level and lifetime achievements. Our public awards the Elders of the Burning Spear, for example have tended, with few exceptions, to go to civil servants and private sector personalities aligned to our ruling political parties. The few exceptions were following our transition of 2002, where stalwarts from the pro-democracy, Second Liberation were recognised, together with Independence stalwarts from the First Liberation previously shunted to the side. The lists are always worth reading, even if only to see who s in and who s out according to the current powers that be. Since there s currently no public value attached to advancing freedom and justice, it s appropriate that the private sector demonstrates that it values such efforts. Which is why, on the eve of the end of his term as United Nations Special Rapporteur for Freedom of Association and Peaceful Assembly, the Kenya Human Rights Commission last week held a dinner in honour of Maina Kiai, its founding executive director.The dinner was full of those from the constitutional, pro-democracy and human-rights movements of the 1990s. Including not just those whose struggles had been brought to the fore by those movements the Mau Mau war veterans and the Nyayo House torture survivors, for example. Or those who continue to benefit from those movements now the Makonde community, for example.But also those now in public and political office, whose remarks were among the most interesting, speaking not just to Maina Kiai s consistency and courage, but also to our failures to maintain an inside/out strategy for advancing freedom and justice.Why honour Maina Kiai? Because of his constantly pushing the boundaries in favour of freedom and justice.At the KHRC in the 1990s, then home and umbrella to the constitutional, pro-democracy and human rights movements, for finding a place for the previously disenfranchised and exiled students who d challenged the first Kenyatta and Moi dictatorships. For beginning the documentation of what had happened to Kenyans under those dictatorships from northern Kenya to the Coast. For being creative about raising questions about police behaviour, bringing the coffins of Kenyans killed by the police literally to their doorstep.As the first chair of the Kenya National Human Rights Commission; for speaking truth to power and demonstrating it is possible to be a public institution that is publicly funded and yet stand ups to the excesses of the executive. For making the fullest use of the KNCHR s mandate instituting a public inquiry into extrajudicial executions, for example. For making a difference. L. Muthoni Wanyeki is Amnesty International s regional director for East Africa, the Horn and the Great Lakes