The World Health Organisation s Africa s regional director, Dr Matshidiso Rebecca Moeti, spoke to Elizabeth Merab on the UN agency, funding and youth involvement in health decision making. ------------------------------------------------ We cannot run away from the fact that donor funding is shrinking by the day. How can African countries fill in the gaps and sustain the progress in healthcare? It was inevitable that we would get here. Countries are developing, their economies are growing. This means that as countries graduate into middle income states, they need to smartly invest more of their resources in health. If donor funding is reducing, African countries need to be working on ways to improve their own revenue. While they are trying to seal the gap, they need to work better on areas that need emphasis. It is not as if the money is not there, it may not be getting into the public purse. Therefore, we need to talk about flight of capital and address cases of some international donors not paying taxes to the degree that they should. At the same time, instead of lamenting and worrying about the flight of donor money, countries need to invest much more effort in getting their own revenue from areas like taxation. With a continent that is heavily populated with young people, what is the involvement of youth in an agenda like Universal Health Coverage? We need to deal with the awkwardness of having old and young people in the room to talk about health or at least engage young people where they are and bring their views and voice into decision making. At the WHO, we are learning to do this. Our adolescent health programme has not been among the best funded or our strongest and we are deciding that it deserves this added emphasis because it deals with the biggest demographic in the region. We are therefore recruiting young people to change how we are working and asking our adolescent health programme to work with all the other programmes, so that those working on HIV/Aids, sexual and reproductive health, non-communicable diseases, and health systems development take on board the needs of young people. Expound on the renewed WHO approach to dealing with health emergencies and outbreaks. Lessons from the Ebola outbreak in West Africa revealed critical gaps in WHO s emergency preparedness. We are, therefore, adjusting our programmes to have a smart technical focus in line with the region s priorities, basing interventions on evidence and lessons learned from experience. We have now reformed our Health Emergencies Programme and are part of a global WHO approach of one emergency programme, one workforce, one budget and one line of accountability. That means, for example, that my director, who is the team leader in Africa, does not need to get permission from me for everything he has to do. One of the big changes we have put in place is that this director can work directly with the executive director in Geneva and the WHO country representative to make decisions. This is the approach we used to address recent disease outbreaks in Africa such as the yellow fever outbreak in Angola. The World Health Organisation s Africa s regional director, Dr Matshidiso Rebecca Moeti, spoke to Elizabeth Merab on the UN agency, funding and youth involvement in health decision making.------------------------------------------------We cannot run away from the fact that donor funding is shrinking by the day. How can African countries fill in the gaps and sustain the progress in healthcare? It was inevitable that we would get here. Countries are developing, their economies are growing. This means that as countries graduate into middle income states, they need to smartly invest more of their resources in health. If donor funding is reducing, African countries need to be working on ways to improve their own revenue. While they are trying to seal the gap, they need to work better on areas that need emphasis. It is not as if the money is not there, it may not be getting into the public purse. Therefore, we need to talk about flight of capital and address cases of some international donors not paying taxes to the degree that they should.At the same time, instead of lamenting and worrying about the flight of donor money, countries need to invest much more effort in getting their own revenue from areas like taxation.With a continent that is heavily populated with young people, what is the involvement of youth in an agenda like Universal Health Coverage?We need to deal with the awkwardness of having old and young people in the room to talk about health or at least engage young people where they are and bring their views and voice into decision making.At the WHO, we are learning to do this. Our adolescent health programme has not been among the best funded or our strongest and we are deciding that it deserves this added emphasis because it deals with the biggest demographic in the region.We are therefore recruiting young people to change how we are working and asking our adolescent health programme to work with all the other programmes, so that those working on HIV/Aids, sexual and reproductive health, non-communicable diseases, and health systems development take on board the needs of young people.Expound on the renewed WHO approach to dealing with health emergencies and outbreaks.Lessons from the Ebola outbreak in West Africa revealed critical gaps in WHO s emergency preparedness.We are, therefore, adjusting our programmes to have a smart technical focus in line with the region s priorities, basing interventions on evidence and lessons learned from experience. We have now reformed our Health Emergencies Programme and are part of a global WHO approach of one emergency programme, one workforce, one budget and one line of accountability.That means, for example, that my director, who is the team leader in Africa, does not need to get permission from me for everything he has to do. One of the big changes we have put in place is that this director can work directly with the executive director in Geneva and the WHO country representative to make decisions.This is the approach we used to address recent disease outbreaks in Africa such as the yellow fever outbreak in Angola.