This year's Genocide Commemoration period, known as Kwibuka, will feature additional events in theatre, music, drama, dance, poetry and film. The highly ranked national events is held annually in honour of the victims and survivors of the 1994 Rwandan Genocide against the Tutsis, which claimed close to one million lives. It also serves to educate the youth, who are the majority today. Typically, Kwibuka events range from singing commemoration songs, listening to live testimonies from survivors and victims and counselling sessions from community leaders. The Rwanda Film Festival organises special local film screenings in Kigali. They include documentaries and feature films about Rwanda, produced by both local and international filmmakers. Film is a powerful tool in storytelling and we aim to reach out to audiences and reflect and honour the past, said Eric Kabera, the festival s founder. The festival has for the past 12 years held screenings both locally in hotels and internationally in embassies worldwide. According to Mr Kabera, this year the week-long screenings will feature foreign films too, about genocide insurgencies. The organisers have collaborated with Kigali Serena Hotel, Hotel Des Mille Colline, and Kwetu Residence and are hoping to reach out to more partners. A documentary on the plight of Burundian refugees in camps will be screened at this year s event. Spoken Word Rwanda, which is a monthly platform nurturing the art of poetry among the youth will also host activities during this period. The performances will pay tribute to the fallen victims, as well as giving hope to the survivors. Local theatre companies have in recent years developed presentations in honour of the commemoration period. However, according to Christian Intwari, one of the founding members of Our Past, an event dedicated to commemorating the 1994 Genocide, the turn up of the youth in these events is low. They do not show enough interest in these events, since only a few turn up, he said. A film is screened at Hotel Des Mille Colline to mark the Kwibuka period. PHOTO| ANDREW KAZIBWE The event, which has been running for the past five years, features music, poetry, theatre and dance presentations, while also fundraising money for Genocide survivors. With very little sponsorship, the event faces many challenges to do with its organisation and presentation. Many young people only learnt about the Genocide in schools or through books, said Ntwari. This year's Genocide Commemoration period, known as Kwibuka, will feature additional events in theatre, music, drama, dance, poetry and film. The highly ranked national events is held annually in honour of the victims and survivors of the 1994 Rwandan Genocide against the Tutsis, which claimed close to one million lives. It also serves to educate the youth, who are the majority today. Typically, Kwibuka events range from singing commemoration songs, listening to live testimonies from survivors and victims and counselling sessions from community leaders. The Rwanda Film Festival organises special local film screenings in Kigali. They include documentaries and feature films about Rwanda, produced by both local and international filmmakers. Film is a powerful tool in storytelling and we aim to reach out to audiences and reflect and honour the past, said Eric Kabera, the festival s founder. The festival has for the past 12 years held screenings both locally in hotels and internationally in embassies worldwide.According to Mr Kabera, this year the week-long screenings will feature foreign films too, about genocide insurgencies. The organisers have collaborated with Kigali Serena Hotel, Hotel Des Mille Colline, and Kwetu Residence and are hoping to reach out to more partners. A documentary on the plight of Burundian refugees in camps will be screened at this year s event. Spoken Word Rwanda, which is a monthly platform nurturing the art of poetry among the youth will also host activities during this period. The performances will pay tribute to the fallen victims, as well as giving hope to the survivors.Local theatre companies have in recent years developed presentations in honour of the commemoration period.However, according to Christian Intwari, one of the founding members of Our Past, an event dedicated to commemorating the 1994 Genocide, the turn up of the youth in these events is low. They do not show enough interest in these events, since only a few turn up, he said.A film is screened at Hotel Des Mille Colline to mark the Kwibuka period. PHOTO| ANDREW KAZIBWEThe event, which has been running for the past five years, features music, poetry, theatre and dance presentations, while also fundraising money for Genocide survivors. With very little sponsorship, the event faces many challenges to do with its organisation and presentation. Many young people only learnt about the Genocide in schools or through books, said Ntwari.