It is plausible to state that since the globalisation of issues like war and peace, trade and commerce, national interests and power as a continent Africa has never been at the decision-making table nor have these issues been skewed in the continent s favour. This is especially evident after the Berlin Conference of 1884 where the continent was shared out among European colonial powers. Since then, when the continent wasn t under colonial rule or struggling to overcome it, it was the subject of charity, pity and lectures on how to govern itself. And, of course, most of the rules in the current world order were written after the Second World War, when Africa was still under colonial rule. That s partly why Africa influences almost nothing today. A factor that explains why not only does the ICC for example ignore what our leaders propose, but also why the same leaders allow themselves to be gathered by this or that power to tell them how the continent can be helped. Even things like AGOA, or former US President Barack Obama s Power Africa initiative are wired around the idea of charity. On its own, Africa has never purposely and with one voice put forward a substantive proposal on trade and business with the West or any other region nor actively sought to influence reforms in institutions like the UN, the World Bank, the IMF or WTO to serve its interests. Today however, the continent has a rare chance to influence a probable new order that might come from the current global turbulence caused by President Donald Trump s ascendance to the American presidency; rising far-right populism in Europe; the EU crisis and Brexit as well as the receding power of the West as China s increases. Analytically therefore, there is no doubt that the western liberal economic and social order is in crisis due to the inequalities it generates; rising unemployment and ultra-nationalism of yesteryears. Beside the uncertain future of the EU, even other post-war institutions like the UN face uncertainty with funding from the US set to be cut and voices calling for reforms in the composition of the UN Security Council increasing. In fact, respected individuals like celebrated economist Paul Collier go further to call for breaking the relief-based monopoly of UNHCR on refugees, which exacerbates rather than mitigates the refugee problem or reforming its relief approach to include job creation for refugees. Already, Collier s proposal is bearing fruit in Lebanon, where, due to his effort, the World Bank is, for the first time, funding job creating ventures for refugees. And as many Rwandans would know, having lived in refugee camps for over thirty years until they decided to solve the problem themselves that the UNHCR does helps but can also create permanent refugees. But, will African leaders seize this rare opportunity and initiate the process of shaping global institutions to serve the continent s interests? From everything I have seen so far, the answer is No! African leaders response so far is marked by congratulatory messages to Trump, with Burundi s leaders even bragging that they were the first to do so; Uganda s President Yoweri Museveni reportedly said he loves Trump, while President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe said he should be given a chance (to implement his policies). It is plausible to state that since the globalisation of issues like war and peace, trade and commerce, national interests and power as a continent Africa has never been at the decision-making table nor have these issues been skewed in the continent s favour.This is especially evident after the Berlin Conference of 1884 where the continent was shared out among European colonial powers.Since then, when the continent wasn t under colonial rule or struggling to overcome it, it was the subject of charity, pity and lectures on how to govern itself. And, of course, most of the rules in the current world order were written after the Second World War, when Africa was still under colonial rule. That s partly why Africa influences almost nothing today. A factor that explains why not only does the ICC for example ignore what our leaders propose, but also why the same leaders allow themselves to be gathered by this or that power to tell them how the continent can be helped. Even things like AGOA, or former US President Barack Obama s Power Africa initiative are wired around the idea of charity. On its own, Africa has never purposely and with one voice put forward a substantive proposal on trade and business with the West or any other region nor actively sought to influence reforms in institutions like the UN, the World Bank, the IMF or WTO to serve its interests.Today however, the continent has a rare chance to influence a probable new order that might come from the current global turbulence caused by President Donald Trump s ascendance to the American presidency; rising far-right populism in Europe; the EU crisis and Brexit as well as the receding power of the West as China s increases. Analytically therefore, there is no doubt that the western liberal economic and social order is in crisis due to the inequalities it generates; rising unemployment and ultra-nationalism of yesteryears.Beside the uncertain future of the EU, even other post-war institutions like the UN face uncertainty with funding from the US set to be cut and voices calling for reforms in the composition of the UN Security Council increasing.In fact, respected individuals like celebrated economist Paul Collier go further to call for breaking the relief-based monopoly of UNHCR on refugees, which exacerbates rather than mitigates the refugee problem or reforming its relief approach to include job creation for refugees.Already, Collier s proposal is bearing fruit in Lebanon, where, due to his effort, the World Bank is, for the first time, funding job creating ventures for refugees.And as many Rwandans would know, having lived in refugee camps for over thirty years until they decided to solve the problem themselves that the UNHCR does helps but can also create permanent refugees. But, will African leaders seize this rare opportunity and initiate the process of shaping global institutions to serve the continent s interests?From everything I have seen so far, the answer is No! African leaders response so far is marked by congratulatory messages to Trump, with Burundi s leaders even bragging that they were the first to do so; Uganda s President Yoweri Museveni reportedly said he loves Trump, while President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe said he should be given a chance (to implement his policies).