It was going to be the perfect prelude to Madaraka Day the day we obtained self-government in advance of full Independence. Damien Marley in concert, the youngest son of the late, great Bob Marley who himself performed at Zimbabwe s Independence Day. Unlike his father, roots reggae artiste and lyricist extraordinaire of all time, Junior Gong is both a reggae and a dancehall artiste. He s open to other musical influences as well, having worked on an Indian fusion collaboration with Mick Jagger. More recently, he s also incorporated various African sounds into his work. So his being in Nairobi, on Wednesday night, on the eve of Madaraka Day, was a perfect plan. Plus, reggae concerts in Kenya particularly of roots reggae performers are usually highly entertaining. The Rastafarian community here tends to show up in force reminding us just how diverse Kenya actually is. The clouds of happy-making substances that float above the crowd we won t say much about. So far, so good. On arrival, it seemed the high expectations were going to be met. Great DJs with a great sound system (for a change) setting the scene. Great light show as a backdrop, incorporating both Jamaican and Rastafarian elements and patterns. But then it all started to go horribly wrong becoming in the end, an exercise in how not to stage a concert. The Rastafarian community was nowhere to be seen perhaps a function of the price of the tickets, perhaps a function of the venue, Carnivore Grounds. Any olfactory evidence of happy-making substances was quickly tracked down by the numerous security personnel around and the offenders ejected efficiently and quietly. Of course, there were lots of middle- and upper-class Kenyans running around in Rastafarian colours, berets and scarves and so on. Not to mention the (more annoying) expatriates with deadlocks/mat-locks (not dreadlocks) or draped with Rastafarian flags. But the mood was good, everybody expectant. The DJs then went on and on and on for far too long. The gates had opened at 6 pm. The DJs didn t turn over to the opening and accompanying Kenyan acts until about 11 pm. The Kenyan acts were great in their own right but again, they just seemed to go on and on and on for far too long. In the end, it wasn t till 1:30 am that Junior Gong finally made an appearance. The crowd went wild. But then he meandered offstage after only one song. The crowd suspended their disbelief. Their hopes were realised when he re-appeared for two more songs. And then he meandered off again. His band looked confused. A couple walked off too. Frantic negotiations could be seen going on at the side of the stage. At which point it was past 2:30 am and we left. Who knows? Maybe he d been left waiting to start for so long that he d got too high to perform. Maybe he was just being a diva. This being Kenya, maybe he was irritated with the promoters for one reason or another. But honestly not a good prelude to Madaraka Day after all. L. Muthoni Wanyeki is Amnesty International s regional director for East Africa, the Horn and the Great Lakes It was going to be the perfect prelude to Madaraka Day the day we obtained self-government in advance of full Independence. Damien Marley in concert, the youngest son of the late, great Bob Marley who himself performed at Zimbabwe s Independence Day.Unlike his father, roots reggae artiste and lyricist extraordinaire of all time, Junior Gong is both a reggae and a dancehall artiste. He s open to other musical influences as well, having worked on an Indian fusion collaboration with Mick Jagger. More recently, he s also incorporated various African sounds into his work.So his being in Nairobi, on Wednesday night, on the eve of Madaraka Day, was a perfect plan. Plus, reggae concerts in Kenya particularly of roots reggae performers are usually highly entertaining. The Rastafarian community here tends to show up in force reminding us just how diverse Kenya actually is. The clouds of happy-making substances that float above the crowd we won t say much about.So far, so good. On arrival, it seemed the high expectations were going to be met. Great DJs with a great sound system (for a change) setting the scene. Great light show as a backdrop, incorporating both Jamaican and Rastafarian elements and patterns.But then it all started to go horribly wrong becoming in the end, an exercise in how not to stage a concert.The Rastafarian community was nowhere to be seen perhaps a function of the price of the tickets, perhaps a function of the venue, Carnivore Grounds. Any olfactory evidence of happy-making substances was quickly tracked down by the numerous security personnel around and the offenders ejected efficiently and quietly.Of course, there were lots of middle- and upper-class Kenyans running around in Rastafarian colours, berets and scarves and so on. Not to mention the (more annoying) expatriates with deadlocks/mat-locks (not dreadlocks) or draped with Rastafarian flags. But the mood was good, everybody expectant.The DJs then went on and on and on for far too long.The gates had opened at 6 pm. The DJs didn t turn over to the opening and accompanying Kenyan acts until about 11 pm. The Kenyan acts were great in their own right but again, they just seemed to go on and on and on for far too long.In the end, it wasn t till 1:30 am that Junior Gong finally made an appearance. The crowd went wild. But then he meandered offstage after only one song. The crowd suspended their disbelief. Their hopes were realised when he re-appeared for two more songs. And then he meandered off again. His band looked confused.A couple walked off too. Frantic negotiations could be seen going on at the side of the stage. At which point it was past 2:30 am and we left.Who knows? Maybe he d been left waiting to start for so long that he d got too high to perform. Maybe he was just being a diva. This being Kenya, maybe he was irritated with the promoters for one reason or another.But honestly not a good prelude to Madaraka Day after all.L. Muthoni Wanyeki is Amnesty International s regional director for East Africa, the Horn and the Great Lakes