East African Community member states are divided on whether to implement the ban on importation of used clothes and leather products, amid concerns that individual countries interests are overriding regional policies. Burundi, Uganda, Kenya, Rwanda and Tanzania agreed in 2016 to ban the importation of secondhand clothes and leather products and restrict the use of old vehicles in the region by 2018, in order to boost their industrialisation programmes. But one year on, Kenya has signalled that it will not respect the 2018 deadline on the grounds that it lacks the capacity to meet both the domestic and export demand for textiles. Criticism The decision has sparked criticism, with Dr Mukhisa Kituyi, Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, the UN body dealing with trade, investment and development, saying it is ill-advised. The Secondary Materials and Recycled Textiles Association (Smart), a US industry association representing used clothing businesses, filed a petition with the USTR on March 21, saying the ban was undesirable. READ : Banning used clothes is not economics, it s idiocy The US imported more than $1 billions worth of textiles and apparel from sub-Saharan Africa under Agoa in 2015, according to available data. Bowing to pressure Observers say that Kenya is bowing to pressure by lobbyists who petitioned the US Trade Representative (USTR) to cancel the Africa Growth and Opportunity Act (Agoa) pact with East African states for proposing to ban the importation of used clothes, a multimillion-dollar business. READ: Kenya rules out banning of second-hand clothes In its petition, Smart called for an out-of-cycle review on Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania and Uganda s eligibility for Agoa in view of the ban. It said the US s used clothing exports to the EAC averaged $24 million a year while indirect exports from Canada, India, UAE, Pakistan, Honduras and Mexico were worth $100 million. The six import used clothes from the US, process them and re-export to East Africa. When taking into account both direct and indirect shipments, the total amount is $124 million, or about 22 per cent of the US industry s total exports each year. We believe that as many as 40 US used clothing exporters are directly involved in trade with the EAC, said Andrea Lynn, marketing communications manager at Fallston Group, which handles media enquiries for Smart. As we work to increase market access for the EAC, we remain concerned by recent trade policy developments that we believe are a step in the wrong direction, said Neda A. Brown, a public affairs officer at the US embassy in Kigali. In Uganda, the executive director of the Private Sector Foundation, Gideon Badagawa, has proposed an extension of the ban deadline for three years, saying that Kampala has not built enough capacity to serve the local market. East African Community member states are divided on whether to implement the ban on importation of used clothes and leather products, amid concerns that individual countries interests are overriding regional policies.Burundi, Uganda, Kenya, Rwanda and Tanzania agreed in 2016 to ban the importation of secondhand clothes and leather products and restrict the use of old vehicles in the region by 2018, in order to boost their industrialisation programmes.But one year on, Kenya has signalled that it will not respect the 2018 deadline on the grounds that it lacks the capacity to meet both the domestic and export demand for textiles.CriticismThe decision has sparked criticism, with Dr Mukhisa Kituyi, Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, the UN body dealing with trade, investment and development, saying it is ill-advised.The Secondary Materials and Recycled Textiles Association (Smart), a US industry association representing used clothing businesses, filed a petition with the USTR on March 21, saying the ban was undesirable.READ : Banning used clothes is not economics, it s idiocyThe US imported more than $1 billions worth of textiles and apparel from sub-Saharan Africa under Agoa in 2015, according to available data.Bowing to pressureObservers say that Kenya is bowing to pressure by lobbyists who petitioned the US Trade Representative (USTR) to cancel the Africa Growth and Opportunity Act (Agoa) pact with East African states for proposing to ban the importation of used clothes, a multimillion-dollar business.READ: Kenya rules out banning of second-hand clothesIn its petition, Smart called for an out-of-cycle review on Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania and Uganda s eligibility for Agoa in view of the ban. It said the US s used clothing exports to the EAC averaged $24 million a year while indirect exports from Canada, India, UAE, Pakistan, Honduras and Mexico were worth $100 million. The six import used clothes from the US, process them and re-export to East Africa. When taking into account both direct and indirect shipments, the total amount is $124 million, or about 22 per cent of the US industry s total exports each year. We believe that as many as 40 US used clothing exporters are directly involved in trade with the EAC, said Andrea Lynn, marketing communications manager at Fallston Group, which handles media enquiries for Smart. As we work to increase market access for the EAC, we remain concerned by recent trade policy developments that we believe are a step in the wrong direction, said Neda A. Brown, a public affairs officer at the US embassy in Kigali.In Uganda, the executive director of the Private Sector Foundation, Gideon Badagawa, has proposed an extension of the ban deadline for three years, saying that Kampala has not built enough capacity to serve the local market.