There are many reasons for going to church. Among the most significant is that it allows one to take whatever may be troubling them before God, ask for His help and, thereafter, believe that all will eventually be well, however long it takes. Then there is the simple but important need to meet up with like-minded people and talk about things of mutual interest and generally socialise. There comes a time, though, when the latter becomes something of a habit, driving one to keep going, almost as a ritual. I don t go much. As a child I went too many times involuntarily. I had been told I had to go because it was what good people did. And then I spent part of my formative years in a Christian boarding school where going to church was part of the routine, six times a week. When I went to university, I felt a certain sense of having been liberated from the tyranny of compulsory churchgoing. Since I could now make my own decisions, going but not prayer - became the last thing on my mind. That s what it has been all these years. That said, churches have remained subjects of interest, not least because some people around me have kept going, religiously. Also, here in Africa, churches have undergone an interesting evolution over time, which makes for interesting observation. I shall return to this shortly. First, some observations in places farther afield. One of the things an attentive observer will see in European cities is the sheer number of church buildings that have become derelict, courtesy of non-use. Going to church is one thing many people there no longer do. Many times I have seen boarded-up church buildings and mused over how, if they could be shipped, the church-going multitudes in Africa, some of whom congregate in make-shift buildings made of papyrus walls and roofed with grass and other vegetation, would gladly have them. Other times I have seen former places of worship turned into cafes, bookshops and fancy fashion stores and wondered why Europeans brought us Christianity and churchgoing and then went ahead and turned away from it in droves, while we over here turn to them with ever greater intensity. What did they discover that we still haven t figured out yet? Have they simply become ungodly, having fallen prey to the temptations of their massive wealth and the comfortable lives it has enabled them to live? It is easy to jump to conclusions of this kind and dismiss societies where church-going has diminished considerably as ungodly, even decadent. That is until one takes a close look at what goes on in some of the multitudes of churches that have sprung up across Africa in recent decades since the advent of what have come to be known as evangelical churches. In recent times, thanks to social media, I have watched quite a number of video clips showing what some of our pastors who run evangelical churches get up to with members of their congregations. There are many reasons for going to church. Among the most significant is that it allows one to take whatever may be troubling them before God, ask for His help and, thereafter, believe that all will eventually be well, however long it takes. Then there is the simple but important need to meet up with like-minded people and talk about things of mutual interest and generally socialise.There comes a time, though, when the latter becomes something of a habit, driving one to keep going, almost as a ritual. I don t go much. As a child I went too many times involuntarily. I had been told I had to go because it was what good people did. And then I spent part of my formative years in a Christian boarding school where going to church was part of the routine, six times a week.When I went to university, I felt a certain sense of having been liberated from the tyranny of compulsory churchgoing. Since I could now make my own decisions, going but not prayer - became the last thing on my mind. That s what it has been all these years.That said, churches have remained subjects of interest, not least because some people around me have kept going, religiously.Also, here in Africa, churches have undergone an interesting evolution over time, which makes for interesting observation. I shall return to this shortly. First, some observations in places farther afield. One of the things an attentive observer will see in European cities is the sheer number of church buildings that have become derelict, courtesy of non-use. Going to church is one thing many people there no longer do. Many times I have seen boarded-up church buildings and mused over how, if they could be shipped, the church-going multitudes in Africa, some of whom congregate in make-shift buildings made of papyrus walls and roofed with grass and other vegetation, would gladly have them. Other times I have seen former places of worship turned into cafes, bookshops and fancy fashion stores and wondered why Europeans brought us Christianity and churchgoing and then went ahead and turned away from it in droves, while we over here turn to them with ever greater intensity.What did they discover that we still haven t figured out yet? Have they simply become ungodly, having fallen prey to the temptations of their massive wealth and the comfortable lives it has enabled them to live? It is easy to jump to conclusions of this kind and dismiss societies where church-going has diminished considerably as ungodly, even decadent. That is until one takes a close look at what goes on in some of the multitudes of churches that have sprung up across Africa in recent decades since the advent of what have come to be known as evangelical churches. In recent times, thanks to social media, I have watched quite a number of video clips showing what some of our pastors who run evangelical churches get up to with members of their congregations.