Last year, the Graca Machel Trust launched the Women Advancing Africa initiative in Dar es Salaam. The founder spoke to Citizen news editor Esther Karin Mngodo about amplifying women s voices Why was the Women Advancing Africa initiative founded? We have recognised women leaders in the political arena, and other sectors, such as health and telecoms. But there is a void when it comes to a platform for women in the economic sphere. We focus on education and women s rights. When it comes to women s rights, our focus is on the economy. We believe that is where progress has been low, and there is no clarity among women on where they want to be in five or 10 years. So we decided to launch this initiative Women Advancing Africa to recognise, celebrate and value what we have achieved; to build connections, and to encourage one another and be part of the Pan-African movement. WAA isn t the first body to advocate for women s financial inclusion. What makes it different from the others? There are some national and sub-regional initiatives. But we do not know of a Pan-African space in which women come together to talk and plan. And this is what we thought to do every two years. Women Advancing Africa is a platform for women from different sectors business, entrepreneurship, science, communications to come together and say where we are today and where we want to go. Progress can be made at the national level when we bring existing women s associations together. Networking is our option, whether you are in construction, mining, or any other field, you are not going to be able to move ahead alone. We base our work on national networks, but we believe that barriers in Tanzania are also barriers in Zambia, Uganda, Mozambique. So, why should we struggle alone? Any one of our countries has common issues with other countries on the continent, which have to be addressed as a movement. We must hold hands and share knowledge and expertise. WAA is a space to walk hand-in-hand, a place to transmit the energy of creativity and innovation from Nigeria and Ghana to influence women in Uganda and Rwanda. The energy of innovation and creativity that can be experienced in DRC to influence women in Malawi. That is how our Pan-African movement will make us strong, united and unstoppable. We claim our right to sit where decisions are made. We claim our right to shape policies, to shape plans and strategies. We claim our right to access to resources in a variety of forms information, skills, financial, removal of legal obstacles. We want to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with our partners, to change how women are regarded and treated. There are good policies in place. Yet in practice, women are not regarded as equals. We are going to assert, in this second struggle, that equality is not a favour. For us to do that, we need to learn from one another, to empower women, to fight together, to set priorities on common agendas. If we are fragmented, working at many things at the same time, we are not going to move or make progress. In what ways would women benefit from WAA? WAA is a platform for women to discover where they can sell their products, how we can increase intra-Africa trade. It is important to trade with China and the US and the UK, but to transform this continent, we have to learn how to trade with people on the continent. This is how you understand the market in Togo, and what kind of products you should sell in Niger. Talk to them and build a sisterhood. That is why we chose these pillars carefully, particularly for African markets. We would like leaders in business networks in this country to take this as yours. You are the voice of other women. Do not be afraid to showcase what you have achieved. Tell the stories and allow people to speak on their own behalf. And when you speak on your own behalf, you are also saying, We collectively agree. This is an opportunity for Tanzania to take the lead in this second liberation in Africa. As a young girl, did you ever see yourself leading a movement and uniting women across borders in the continent? When we are much younger, we tend to look at the environment in which we are. Last year, the Graca Machel Trust launched the Women Advancing Africa initiative in Dar es Salaam. The founder spoke to Citizen news editor Esther Karin Mngodo about amplifying women s voicesWhy was the Women Advancing Africa initiative founded?We have recognised women leaders in the political arena, and other sectors, such as health and telecoms. But there is a void when it comes to a platform for women in the economic sphere. We focus on education and women s rights. When it comes to women s rights, our focus is on the economy. We believe that is where progress has been low, and there is no clarity among women on where they want to be in five or 10 years. So we decided to launch this initiative Women Advancing Africa to recognise, celebrate and value what we have achieved; to build connections, and to encourage one another and be part of the Pan-African movement.WAA isn t the first body to advocate for women s financial inclusion. What makes it different from the others? There are some national and sub-regional initiatives. But we do not know of a Pan-African space in which women come together to talk and plan. And this is what we thought to do every two years. Women Advancing Africa is a platform for women from different sectors business, entrepreneurship, science, communications to come together and say where we are today and where we want to go. Progress can be made at the national level when we bring existing women s associations together. Networking is our option, whether you are in construction, mining, or any other field, you are not going to be able to move ahead alone. We base our work on national networks, but we believe that barriers in Tanzania are also barriers in Zambia, Uganda, Mozambique. So, why should we struggle alone? Any one of our countries has common issues with other countries on the continent, which have to be addressed as a movement. We must hold hands and share knowledge and expertise. WAA is a space to walk hand-in-hand, a place to transmit the energy of creativity and innovation from Nigeria and Ghana to influence women in Uganda and Rwanda. The energy of innovation and creativity that can be experienced in DRC to influence women in Malawi. That is how our Pan-African movement will make us strong, united and unstoppable. We claim our right to sit where decisions are made. We claim our right to shape policies, to shape plans and strategies. We claim our right to access to resources in a variety of forms information, skills, financial, removal of legal obstacles. We want to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with our partners, to change how women are regarded and treated.There are good policies in place. Yet in practice, women are not regarded as equals. We are going to assert, in this second struggle, that equality is not a favour. For us to do that, we need to learn from one another, to empower women, to fight together, to set priorities on common agendas. If we are fragmented, working at many things at the same time, we are not going to move or make progress.In what ways would women benefit from WAA? WAA is a platform for women to discover where they can sell their products, how we can increase intra-Africa trade. It is important to trade with China and the US and the UK, but to transform this continent, we have to learn how to trade with people on the continent. This is how you understand the market in Togo, and what kind of products you should sell in Niger. Talk to them and build a sisterhood. That is why we chose these pillars carefully, particularly for African markets. We would like leaders in business networks in this country to take this as yours. You are the voice of other women. Do not be afraid to showcase what you have achieved. Tell the stories and allow people to speak on their own behalf. And when you speak on your own behalf, you are also saying, We collectively agree. This is an opportunity for Tanzania to take the lead in this second liberation in Africa.As a young girl, did you ever see yourself leading a movement and uniting women across borders in the continent? When we are much younger, we tend to look at the environment in which we are.