Troubled Chase Bank shareholders have written a protest letter to the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) asking to be part of ongoing negotiations to sell some of the bank s shares to a deep-pocketed investor. The 48 shareholders, including foreign investors who control 20.9 per cent of Chase Bank, are through their lawyer, seeking access to a due diligence report prepared by KPMG and a Deloitte forensic audit report in order to determine the capital adequacy position of the troubled financier. Our position is that a deal cannot be done without the shareholders being part of the process. The bank belongs to the shareholders. "CBK/KDIC have no right to sell the bank s shares as that would amount to expropriation, said Sonal Sejpal of Anjarwalla &amp; Khanna. Top owners German investment firm DEG, French private equity fund Amethis Finance and Swiss venture capital firm ResponsAbility are some of the top owners of Chase Bank. The shareholders reckon that the CBK has several times refused to provide information they need to determine the financial position of bank. Shareholders have asked for this several times. We don t have this information. Our position is that we have to access the info whether we put in a bid or not. We have written to CBK to have this clarified, said Ms Sejpal. The CBK last week invited investors to submit bids to acquire an unknown stake in Chase Bank, a move that will dilute the current owners. READ: Chase Bank owners to lose control on sale The CBK also extended Chase Bank s receivership period for another six months ending October 7. 'Frustrating' process What is frustrating is that this process could have been started months ago, Ms Sejpal said, adding that shareholders would exercise their legal rights if denied access to the information. Zafrullah Khan, the ousted chairman of Chase Bank, and suspended managing director Duncan Kabui, were named as key architects of a scheme that systematically looted Sh11 billion from the bank. Finance manager Makarios Agumbi and James Mwaura (credit manager) were also named as part of the discreet scheme that enabled cash to be siphoned from Chase Bank disguised as Islamic lending contracts. Troubled Chase Bank shareholders have written a protest letter to the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) asking to be part of ongoing negotiations to sell some of the bank s shares to a deep-pocketed investor.The 48 shareholders, including foreign investors who control 20.9 per cent of Chase Bank, are through their lawyer, seeking access to a due diligence report prepared by KPMG and a Deloitte forensic audit report in order to determine the capital adequacy position of the troubled financier. Our position is that a deal cannot be done without the shareholders being part of the process. The bank belongs to the shareholders. "CBK/KDIC have no right to sell the bank s shares as that would amount to expropriation, said Sonal Sejpal of Anjarwalla &amp; Khanna.Top ownersGerman investment firm DEG, French private equity fund Amethis Finance and Swiss venture capital firm ResponsAbility are some of the top owners of Chase Bank.The shareholders reckon that the CBK has several times refused to provide information they need to determine the financial position of bank. Shareholders have asked for this several times. We don t have this information. Our position is that we have to access the info whether we put in a bid or not. We have written to CBK to have this clarified, said Ms Sejpal.The CBK last week invited investors to submit bids to acquire an unknown stake in Chase Bank, a move that will dilute the current owners. READ: Chase Bank owners to lose control on saleThe CBK also extended Chase Bank s receivership period for another six months ending October 7.'Frustrating' process What is frustrating is that this process could have been started months ago, Ms Sejpal said, adding that shareholders would exercise their legal rights if denied access to the information. Zafrullah Khan, the ousted chairman of Chase Bank, and suspended managing director Duncan Kabui, were named as key architects of a scheme that systematically looted Sh11 billion from the bank.Finance manager Makarios Agumbi and James Mwaura (credit manager) were also named as part of the discreet scheme that enabled cash to be siphoned from Chase Bank disguised as Islamic lending contracts.