Government officials are faulting a new policy governing foreign travel arguing that it goes beyond its intended purpose of saving public funds, by infringing on privately sourced and funded work-related travel. We understand saving government money, but why do they also block a trip that is fully funded externally, yet it is tied to official work. They are taking away our opportunities for professional growth, said a government official who spoke on condition of anonymity. All foreign trips are now approved from the president s office, something the source said leads to so many deferrals without any clear criteria, barring many from attending foreign meetings that would add value and knowledge. Many officials say the policy is taking a lot away from them in terms of missed opportunities to grow their skills, exposure and experience, which they get on foreign trips. The government adopted the policy early last year as a way of controlling overspending on foreign travel. Delegates to the recently concluded National Leadership Retreat heard that a four per cent reduction had been registered from money spent on such trips, saving the government Rwf125 million in the 2015/16 fiscal year, and Rwf171million ($0.2 million) in the 2016/17 fiscal year. Missions to East African countries bore the brunt of the new policy with 77 meetings (36 per cent) considered not relevant, 17 (eight per cent) commuted to video conferencing and five (two per cent) were attended by embassy representatives. One of the resolutions was about reducing unnecessary foreign travels by government officials, this was sufficiently implemented and many of these trips were reduced, said Tugireyezu Venantie, the minister in the President s office. Some foreign agencies partner with the government in various sectors of development to sponsor officials to attend conferences abroad. But with the new policy, even such foreign trips where government would not spend a penny, or where it would spend only $50 dollars on airport transfers, are curtailed, something many officials find unfair. A source in government said that that shortly before the Ministry of East African Community Affairs was merged with the Ministry of Trade and Commerce, a high-ranking official exploited a USAid funded trip by sending eight unofficial people some of whom did not work for the Ministry, while one was a relative. USAid had paid for 10 government officials to attend the conference but authorities only nominated two people. Government officials are faulting a new policy governing foreign travel arguing that it goes beyond its intended purpose of saving public funds, by infringing on privately sourced and funded work-related travel. We understand saving government money, but why do they also block a trip that is fully funded externally, yet it is tied to official work. They are taking away our opportunities for professional growth, said a government official who spoke on condition of anonymity. All foreign trips are now approved from the president s office, something the source said leads to so many deferrals without any clear criteria, barring many from attending foreign meetings that would add value and knowledge. Many officials say the policy is taking a lot away from them in terms of missed opportunities to grow their skills, exposure and experience, which they get on foreign trips. The government adopted the policy early last year as a way of controlling overspending on foreign travel. Delegates to the recently concluded National Leadership Retreat heard that a four per cent reduction had been registered from money spent on such trips, saving the government Rwf125 million in the 2015/16 fiscal year, and Rwf171million ($0.2 million) in the 2016/17 fiscal year. Missions to East African countries bore the brunt of the new policy with 77 meetings (36 per cent) considered not relevant, 17 (eight per cent) commuted to video conferencing and five (two per cent) were attended by embassy representatives. One of the resolutions was about reducing unnecessary foreign travels by government officials, this was sufficiently implemented and many of these trips were reduced, said Tugireyezu Venantie, the minister in the President s office. Some foreign agencies partner with the government in various sectors of development to sponsor officials to attend conferences abroad. But with the new policy, even such foreign trips where government would not spend a penny, or where it would spend only $50 dollars on airport transfers, are curtailed, something many officials find unfair.A source in government said that that shortly before the Ministry of East African Community Affairs was merged with the Ministry of Trade and Commerce, a high-ranking official exploited a USAid funded trip by sending eight unofficial people some of whom did not work for the Ministry, while one was a relative. USAid had paid for 10 government officials to attend the conference but authorities only nominated two people.