Barclays Bank has sold more than 1,100 gold shares on the Nairobi Securities Exchange on its new gold trading platform, through Barclays Financial Services Ltd, barely four days after it was listed. On March 27, the trading in the NewGold ETF was opened, allowing Kenyan and regional investors to trade in gold on the NSE through Barclays Bank Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs), having received approval from the Capital Markets Authority in February for the listing of 400,000 gold bullion debentures, each equivalent to 0.01 of an ounce of gold. They were being sold at $1250 each. READ: Barclays launches gold trading platform on the Nairobi Securities Exchange According to Anthony Kirui, the head of markets at Barclays Bank of Kenya, there has been huge interest in the product from both institutional and individual investors. We expect the buildup in market activity to catch up with the high levels of interest in the product as the investing public becomes more familiar with how the product works. We will resume next week as part of our continued investor engagement and because larger investor groups such as fund managers remain keen and are currently engaging their key stakeholders, particularly their various trustees, Mr Kirui told The EastAfrican. Through the New Gold ETF, Barclays Bank has offered the opportunity to invest directly in gold bullions. Gold has delivered consistently higher returns than stockmarkets for the past nine years, since the global financial crisis of 2008. Already, Citi Group has predicted gold prices will reach a high of $1,300 per ounce this year. In an earlier interview, with The EastAfrican, Michael Mgwaba, the head of ETFs at Barclays Africa Group Ltd, said that the ETF will be based on the real time value of the underlying gold that they track. The NewGold ETF is Kenya shillings, denominated and its price will be based on the Kenya shilling equivalent of the prevailing dollar international market price of gold. The price movement of the ETF will be determined by the price movement of gold. There will accordingly be no intra-day price limit on the ETF and there will not be price limits between trading sessions, said Mr Mgwaba, adding that they are attractive as investments because of their low costs and stock-like features. Barclays Bank has sold more than 1,100 gold shares on the Nairobi Securities Exchange on its new gold trading platform, through Barclays Financial Services Ltd, barely four days after it was listed.On March 27, the trading in the NewGold ETF was opened, allowing Kenyan and regional investors to trade in gold on the NSE through Barclays Bank Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs), having received approval from the Capital Markets Authority in February for the listing of 400,000 gold bullion debentures, each equivalent to 0.01 of an ounce of gold. They were being sold at $1250 each.READ: Barclays launches gold trading platform on the Nairobi Securities Exchange According to Anthony Kirui, the head of markets at Barclays Bank of Kenya, there has been huge interest in the product from both institutional and individual investors. We expect the buildup in market activity to catch up with the high levels of interest in the product as the investing public becomes more familiar with how the product works. We will resume next week as part of our continued investor engagement and because larger investor groups such as fund managers remain keen and are currently engaging their key stakeholders, particularly their various trustees, Mr Kirui told The EastAfrican.Through the New Gold ETF, Barclays Bank has offered the opportunity to invest directly in gold bullions. Gold has delivered consistently higher returns than stockmarkets for the past nine years, since the global financial crisis of 2008. Already, Citi Group has predicted gold prices will reach a high of $1,300 per ounce this year.In an earlier interview, with The EastAfrican, Michael Mgwaba, the head of ETFs at Barclays Africa Group Ltd, said that the ETF will be based on the real time value of the underlying gold that they track. The NewGold ETF is Kenya shillings, denominated and its price will be based on the Kenya shilling equivalent of the prevailing dollar international market price of gold. The price movement of the ETF will be determined by the price movement of gold. There will accordingly be no intra-day price limit on the ETF and there will not be price limits between trading sessions, said Mr Mgwaba, adding that they are attractive as investments because of their low costs and stock-like features.