Uncertainty is hanging over the fate of Rift Valley Railways (RVR) after Kenya ushered in a new era in rail transport with the commissioning of the standard gauge railway. By all accounts, the start of operations of the SGR marks the ultimate demise of the 118-year-old metre gauge railway operated by RVR despite the company maintaining it is still in business and determined to compete. But with Kenya Railways having terminated the RVR concession agreement in March and Uganda also working towards the same fate, RVR is clinging to hope of remaining in operation even when it is clear the future of rail transport in the region is standard gauge railway-based. READ: RVR running out of time to salvage concession The EastAfrican has established that Kenya Railways (KR) has started the process of repossessing all the concessioned assets while Kampala gave RVR a notice of intent to terminate the concession which expired. A notice to terminate is awaiting the signature of the Finance minister. We are on the route to termination. Kampala is following on the same route as Kenya but the two countries are not at the same level as regards the notices issued to the concessionaire, said a senior official at Uganda Railways Corporation. End of the line... But, according to RVR chief executive officer Isaiah Okoth, the notices of termination cannot take effect until the company exhausts all the options available to salvaging the concession. He added that it is premature for KR to take over the assets because RVR still has options to salvage the concession if it manages to bring on board new shareholders, something that looks increasingly unlikely following the walkout of Washington-based Emerging Capital Partners (ECP). READ: Why American firm dropped quest for RVR Kenya Railways said the notice of termination would run until the end of June. We are assessing the status of the conceded assets to inform GoK s next course of action, said KR managing director Athanas Maina. RVR maintains it still has a significant role to play in rail transport particularly in hauling cargo from Nairobi to the western part of the country and Uganda. But with the Kenyan government stipulating that SGR will transport at least 40 per cent of cargo arriving at the port to be cleared in Nairobi, this marks the end of RVR operations on the Mombasa-Nairobi route. ... start of another Uncertainty is hanging over the fate of Rift Valley Railways (RVR) after Kenya ushered in a new era in rail transport with the commissioning of the standard gauge railway.By all accounts, the start of operations of the SGR marks the ultimate demise of the 118-year-old metre gauge railway operated by RVR despite the company maintaining it is still in business and determined to compete. But with Kenya Railways having terminated the RVR concession agreement in March and Uganda also working towards the same fate, RVR is clinging to hope of remaining in operation even when it is clear the future of rail transport in the region is standard gauge railway-based. READ: RVR running out of time to salvage concessionThe EastAfrican has established that Kenya Railways (KR) has started the process of repossessing all the concessioned assets while Kampala gave RVR a notice of intent to terminate the concession which expired. A notice to terminate is awaiting the signature of the Finance minister. We are on the route to termination. Kampala is following on the same route as Kenya but the two countries are not at the same level as regards the notices issued to the concessionaire, said a senior official at Uganda Railways Corporation.End of the line...But, according to RVR chief executive officer Isaiah Okoth, the notices of termination cannot take effect until the company exhausts all the options available to salvaging the concession. He added that it is premature for KR to take over the assets because RVR still has options to salvage the concession if it manages to bring on board new shareholders, something that looks increasingly unlikely following the walkout of Washington-based Emerging Capital Partners (ECP). READ: Why American firm dropped quest for RVRKenya Railways said the notice of termination would run until the end of June. We are assessing the status of the conceded assets to inform GoK s next course of action, said KR managing director Athanas Maina.RVR maintains it still has a significant role to play in rail transport particularly in hauling cargo from Nairobi to the western part of the country and Uganda. But with the Kenyan government stipulating that SGR will transport at least 40 per cent of cargo arriving at the port to be cleared in Nairobi, this marks the end of RVR operations on the Mombasa-Nairobi route.... start of another