Music and dance have been core components of Rwandan life and culture. For centuries, the two have featured prominently at significant celebrations such as naming of children, weddings, birthdays, marriages and other traditional celebrations. Even with modernisation, where new artistes borrow heavily from western influences a trend that is undoubtedly diluting Rwandan culture there is no celebratory occasion where you don t find traditional music and dance. Fears about losing authentic traditional music and dance have seen artistes and organisations coming together on projects to promote and preserve the genre. One such organisation is Red Rocks Cultural Centre, which is based in Musanze district. It recently discovered the Ikireze Traditional Dance Group, which is made up of 32 members, 12 of them dancers with the majority being youth. The group seeks to preserve cultural music and dance. The Red Rocks Cultural Centre was established as a platform to showcase the country s culture. Louise Marie Nyiramajyambere, the leader of Ikireze Traditional Dance Group, has been with the group since its inception late last year. Nyiramajyambere, a widow and mother of four children, says the group s activities are not limited to music and dance only, but also pottery. Her main is to train young, talented children on traditional dance and music. It is good to discover and harness their skills when they are still young, she says. Some of these children have shown incredible skills and talent. Nyiramajyambere comes alive when she takes to the dance floor, stomping her feet to the rhythm of the music and waving her hands in the air, which are moves that are characteristics of Rwandan traditional dance. She is also a gifted drummer and singer. The Ikireze Traditional Dance Group has been actively taking part in Red Rocks monthly cultural events. The children that Nyiramajyambere trains took part in a Cultural Talent Show early this year. We teach the children that according to traditional Rwandan dancing, men portray courage, strength and confidence, while women portray love, care, and graceful, feminine strength, Nyiramajyambere said. Today, as more tourists visit the country, most hotels that offer accommodation often entertain their guests with traditional dance and music performances. We often perform for tourists and with their tips we buy more musical instruments. We also get to cater for the basic needs of our families, Nyiramajyambere said. Traditional music and dance is often accompanied by various Rwandan instruments like the Ingoma (drum); the Inanga, a guitar-like instrument with 9-12 strings; the Umuduli, a single string, bow-like instrument, and the Amakondera, which is made from the cow horn. Music and dance have been core components of Rwandan life and culture. For centuries, the two have featured prominently at significant celebrations such as naming of children, weddings, birthdays, marriages and other traditional celebrations.Even with modernisation, where new artistes borrow heavily from western influences a trend that is undoubtedly diluting Rwandan culture there is no celebratory occasion where you don t find traditional music and dance. Fears about losing authentic traditional music and dance have seen artistes and organisations coming together on projects to promote and preserve the genre.One such organisation is Red Rocks Cultural Centre, which is based in Musanze district. It recently discovered the Ikireze Traditional Dance Group, which is made up of 32 members, 12 of them dancers with the majority being youth. The group seeks to preserve cultural music and dance. The Red Rocks Cultural Centre was established as a platform to showcase the country s culture.Louise Marie Nyiramajyambere, the leader of Ikireze Traditional Dance Group, has been with the group since its inception late last year.Nyiramajyambere, a widow and mother of four children, says the group s activities are not limited to music and dance only, but also pottery. Her main is to train young, talented children on traditional dance and music. It is good to discover and harness their skills when they are still young, she says. Some of these children have shown incredible skills and talent. Nyiramajyambere comes alive when she takes to the dance floor, stomping her feet to the rhythm of the music and waving her hands in the air, which are moves that are characteristics of Rwandan traditional dance. She is also a gifted drummer and singer.The Ikireze Traditional Dance Group has been actively taking part in Red Rocks monthly cultural events. The children that Nyiramajyambere trains took part in a Cultural Talent Show early this year. We teach the children that according to traditional Rwandan dancing, men portray courage, strength and confidence, while women portray love, care, and graceful, feminine strength, Nyiramajyambere said. Today, as more tourists visit the country, most hotels that offer accommodation often entertain their guests with traditional dance and music performances. We often perform for tourists and with their tips we buy more musical instruments. We also get to cater for the basic needs of our families, Nyiramajyambere said.Traditional music and dance is often accompanied by various Rwandan instruments like the Ingoma (drum); the Inanga, a guitar-like instrument with 9-12 strings; the Umuduli, a single string, bow-like instrument, and the Amakondera, which is made from the cow horn.