If you are old enough to have experienced post-colonial Africa in full, you will know how the armed forces we inherited from colonial governments have evolved. If you were born only yesterday and you re a history buff, you will also know what has happened to our men and women in uniform. There was a period during the 1960s, 70s and 80s, when soldiers seemed to believe it was their right to walk out of their barracks and seize power from politicians and proceed to lock them up or execute them. Those who were lucky enough to escape capture would go into exile and, in many cases, spend time ruminating over what might have been had they governed according to popular expectations or in ways that pleased the armed men. Relatively few countries had governments where solidarity between civilian power holders and their military subordinates was such that nothing happened to upset the status quo. I am aware of only one country, Tanzania, where early on, when the military raised its head and threatened to become a problem, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere moved quickly to carry out reforms that put it back in its place, permanently. Milton Obote, his colleague in Uganda at the time, dilly-dallied and even went ahead to try to placate mutinous soldiers with salary increases. Within less than a decade, he was gone, having fallen victim to the monster whose indiscipline he had fed with such generosity. In Rwanda, Gregoire Kayibanda, who rode to power on mass killings and genocidal ideology, soon fell out with the soldiers. He wasn t lucky enough to escape capture. He starved to death in his prison cell. Professional soldiering Toppling governments was not the only strange element in the military s conduct. There was, for example, this strange idea about what it meant to be professional. Colonial governments had inculcated the idea that professional soldiering was about keeping aloof from members of the public by, for example, living in barracks and doing only those things that were military in nature and nothing else, certainly not things that had nothing to do directly with soldiering. The police too were pretty much socialised this way, being confined to barracks and not engaging in activities that had nothing to do directly with policing. Perhaps most significant for the ordinary citizen was that in both cases it was as if instilling fear in members of the public was something of a badge of honour for the men in uniform. There were very few women in those days. Remarkably, in many respects, some of these things remain to this day. There are countries where harassing, assaulting and generally mistreating members of the general public at the slightest opportunity, is taken as something of a right for police officers and, in some cases, soldiers too. The culture of coups may have virtually died out, thanks to a combination of national, continental and international factors, but that of physical aggression remains alive and well in many places, seemingly difficult to eradicate. But is it that difficult? It seems not, and here again, small but plucky Rwanda, as one columnist put it recently, is blazing new trails. In several opinion surveys over the years, the army and the police, the latter less than 20 years old, have consistently emerged as the most disciplined and trusted of public institutions. What are the roots of this trust? Over and above a redefinition of security and its understanding as dependent on good day-to-day relations between members of the public and the security forces, the post-genocide state added a new role to the purely military and policing functions. Outlined as the forces secondary mission, the role entails actively participating in activities intended to lift the standards of living of the ordinary Rwandan, specifically the poor and deprived. If you are old enough to have experienced post-colonial Africa in full, you will know how the armed forces we inherited from colonial governments have evolved. If you were born only yesterday and you re a history buff, you will also know what has happened to our men and women in uniform. There was a period during the 1960s, 70s and 80s, when soldiers seemed to believe it was their right to walk out of their barracks and seize power from politicians and proceed to lock them up or execute them.Those who were lucky enough to escape capture would go into exile and, in many cases, spend time ruminating over what might have been had they governed according to popular expectations or in ways that pleased the armed men. Relatively few countries had governments where solidarity between civilian power holders and their military subordinates was such that nothing happened to upset the status quo. I am aware of only one country, Tanzania, where early on, when the military raised its head and threatened to become a problem, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere moved quickly to carry out reforms that put it back in its place, permanently. Milton Obote, his colleague in Uganda at the time, dilly-dallied and even went ahead to try to placate mutinous soldiers with salary increases. Within less than a decade, he was gone, having fallen victim to the monster whose indiscipline he had fed with such generosity.In Rwanda, Gregoire Kayibanda, who rode to power on mass killings and genocidal ideology, soon fell out with the soldiers. He wasn t lucky enough to escape capture. He starved to death in his prison cell. Professional soldieringToppling governments was not the only strange element in the military s conduct. There was, for example, this strange idea about what it meant to be professional.Colonial governments had inculcated the idea that professional soldiering was about keeping aloof from members of the public by, for example, living in barracks and doing only those things that were military in nature and nothing else, certainly not things that had nothing to do directly with soldiering.The police too were pretty much socialised this way, being confined to barracks and not engaging in activities that had nothing to do directly with policing. Perhaps most significant for the ordinary citizen was that in both cases it was as if instilling fear in members of the public was something of a badge of honour for the men in uniform. There were very few women in those days.Remarkably, in many respects, some of these things remain to this day. There are countries where harassing, assaulting and generally mistreating members of the general public at the slightest opportunity, is taken as something of a right for police officers and, in some cases, soldiers too.The culture of coups may have virtually died out, thanks to a combination of national, continental and international factors, but that of physical aggression remains alive and well in many places, seemingly difficult to eradicate. But is it that difficult? It seems not, and here again, small but plucky Rwanda, as one columnist put it recently, is blazing new trails. In several opinion surveys over the years, the army and the police, the latter less than 20 years old, have consistently emerged as the most disciplined and trusted of public institutions. What are the roots of this trust? Over and above a redefinition of security and its understanding as dependent on good day-to-day relations between members of the public and the security forces, the post-genocide state added a new role to the purely military and policing functions.Outlined as the forces secondary mission, the role entails actively participating in activities intended to lift the standards of living of the ordinary Rwandan, specifically the poor and deprived.