Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo in April signed a five-year joint exploration agreement for oil under Lake Kivu. But there are extraordinary risks: The lake has a huge amount of gas in its deep waters and could explode, with devastating consequences. With a surface area of 2,370km almost the size of Mauritius and a maximum depth of 480 metres, Lake Kivu is one of the Great Lakes of Africa. It is the third deepest in Africa, after Lakes Malawi and Tanganyika, all located in East Africa s Western Rift Valley. Kivu lies on the border between Rwanda and DRC. While other lakes in the Western Rift Valley are rich in fish species, Kivu is not. There are only 28, compared with over 400 in downstream Lake Tanganyika. Nevertheless, the lake supports an important fisheries industry based on an introduced sardine native to Lake Tanganyika yielding over 20,000 tonnes per year. The Kivu basin is home to two million people, with more than 400 inhabitants per square kilometre. This is one of the highest population densities in the area surrounding the Great Lakes, with several large refugee camps near the shores. Kivu is an important transport corridor for the informal economic exchange between Rwanda and DR Congo, with steady traffic in produce, fish and domestic goods. It is also a major reservoir providing water for power production downstream on the Ruzizi river. Density stratification Although it has a mean depth of 240 metres, oxygen does not penetrate below 60 metres. This means that only bacteria grow through most of the volume of the lake while fish and other large organisms are restricted to the surface layer. In common with all deep lakes, Kivu has density stratification: The densest water is found at the bottom and the least dense at the top. Density is a function of temperature and salinity. Cooler and more saline waters are denser. Unlike most other lakes, Kivu gets warm, saline inflows into the water, enforcing a strong density gradation from bottom to top results in layers of different density and an uncommon temperature structure, where the warmest waters occur at the deepest ends. Temperatures are affected by inflowing deep springs heated by the active volcanoes that form its northern watershed. But these warm springs are also rich in volcanogenic carbon dioxide and other salts. Because of the salt inputs, there is a very strong and permanent density gradient, with the water deep in the lake trapping dissolved gases such as carbon dioxide and methane. There are over 60 cubic metres of methane dissolved in the depths of the lake, and it would degas spontaneously if the deep water were significantly displaced upward. A simple example is the bubbling that occurs when you shake bottle of soda and remove its cap. The cap on Lake Kivu is the density gradient that prevents water from moving upward rapidly and de-gassing into the atmosphere. READ: Symbion Power to produce 50MW from methane Rapid de-gassing But the potential for rapid de-gassing is real, especially in a geologically active region such as the Kivu basin. Volcanoes and earthquakes are common in the Rift Valley. Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo in April signed a five-year joint exploration agreement for oil under Lake Kivu. But there are extraordinary risks: The lake has a huge amount of gas in its deep waters and could explode, with devastating consequences.With a surface area of 2,370km almost the size of Mauritius and a maximum depth of 480 metres, Lake Kivu is one of the Great Lakes of Africa. It is the third deepest in Africa, after Lakes Malawi and Tanganyika, all located in East Africa s Western Rift Valley.Kivu lies on the border between Rwanda and DRC. While other lakes in the Western Rift Valley are rich in fish species, Kivu is not. There are only 28, compared with over 400 in downstream Lake Tanganyika. Nevertheless, the lake supports an important fisheries industry based on an introduced sardine native to Lake Tanganyika yielding over 20,000 tonnes per year.The Kivu basin is home to two million people, with more than 400 inhabitants per square kilometre. This is one of the highest population densities in the area surrounding the Great Lakes, with several large refugee camps near the shores.Kivu is an important transport corridor for the informal economic exchange between Rwanda and DR Congo, with steady traffic in produce, fish and domestic goods. It is also a major reservoir providing water for power production downstream on the Ruzizi river.Density stratificationAlthough it has a mean depth of 240 metres, oxygen does not penetrate below 60 metres. This means that only bacteria grow through most of the volume of the lake while fish and other large organisms are restricted to the surface layer.In common with all deep lakes, Kivu has density stratification: The densest water is found at the bottom and the least dense at the top. Density is a function of temperature and salinity. Cooler and more saline waters are denser. Unlike most other lakes, Kivu gets warm, saline inflows into the water, enforcing a strong density gradation from bottom to top results in layers of different density and an uncommon temperature structure, where the warmest waters occur at the deepest ends.Temperatures are affected by inflowing deep springs heated by the active volcanoes that form its northern watershed. But these warm springs are also rich in volcanogenic carbon dioxide and other salts. Because of the salt inputs, there is a very strong and permanent density gradient, with the water deep in the lake trapping dissolved gases such as carbon dioxide and methane.There are over 60 cubic metres of methane dissolved in the depths of the lake, and it would degas spontaneously if the deep water were significantly displaced upward. A simple example is the bubbling that occurs when you shake bottle of soda and remove its cap. The cap on Lake Kivu is the density gradient that prevents water from moving upward rapidly and de-gassing into the atmosphere.READ: Symbion Power to produce 50MW from methaneRapid de-gassingBut the potential for rapid de-gassing is real, especially in a geologically active region such as the Kivu basin. Volcanoes and earthquakes are common in the Rift Valley.