As Kenya and Rwanda go to the polls in August, there is an air of optimism among investors in the region that the elections will be largely peaceful, with very few taking up political risk and violence insurance covers. Pan-African insurer African Trade Insurance Agency (ATI) says that only a few investors are considering taking up political risk and political violence covers, compared with 2013 when Kenyans last voted. The pan-African investment and commercial risk insurance provider recorded a large number of investors in Kenya seeking election-related covers during the last electioneering period in Kenya. The result of the elections in Kenya is important, as it is the gateway to the landlocked East African states. Compared with 2013, we are not getting many inquiries on political cover, because investors feel that the elections will be peaceful, said George Otieno, ATI chief executive officer. Increased uptake In Rwanda, where President Paul Kagame is likely to be re-elected for a third term, ATI, which offers political risk cover to big clients, anticipates a smooth polling process. Although ATI is recording subdued interest, Kenyan insurance companies offering political violence, terrorism and sabotage covers are recording increase in uptake. UAP Insurance, Jubilee Insurance and CIC Insurance have all reported significant interest in the cover. In the bloody 2007 elections aftermath, the three companies paid in excess of $3 million in claims. Association of Kenya Insurers chief executive officer Tom Gichuhi told The EastAfrican that this being an election year, the industry has seen more companies take up insurance against political violence, considering that some parts of the country have been declared as hotspots. He noted that chaos was witnessed in some parts of the country during the political party nominations exercise. He said that many medium-sized companies that were affected by the 2007 post-election violence are leading in safeguarding their businesses. Peaceful polls The fact that investors are confident that elections in Kenya will be largely peaceful is positive news not only for the country but also the entire East Africa region. As Kenya and Rwanda go to the polls in August, there is an air of optimism among investors in the region that the elections will be largely peaceful, with very few taking up political risk and violence insurance covers.Pan-African insurer African Trade Insurance Agency (ATI) says that only a few investors are considering taking up political risk and political violence covers, compared with 2013 when Kenyans last voted. The pan-African investment and commercial risk insurance provider recorded a large number of investors in Kenya seeking election-related covers during the last electioneering period in Kenya.The result of the elections in Kenya is important, as it is the gateway to the landlocked East African states. Compared with 2013, we are not getting many inquiries on political cover, because investors feel that the elections will be peaceful, said George Otieno, ATI chief executive officer.Increased uptakeIn Rwanda, where President Paul Kagame is likely to be re-elected for a third term, ATI, which offers political risk cover to big clients, anticipates a smooth polling process.Although ATI is recording subdued interest, Kenyan insurance companies offering political violence, terrorism and sabotage covers are recording increase in uptake. UAP Insurance, Jubilee Insurance and CIC Insurance have all reported significant interest in the cover. In the bloody 2007 elections aftermath, the three companies paid in excess of $3 million in claims. Association of Kenya Insurers chief executive officer Tom Gichuhi told The EastAfrican that this being an election year, the industry has seen more companies take up insurance against political violence, considering that some parts of the country have been declared as hotspots.He noted that chaos was witnessed in some parts of the country during the political party nominations exercise.He said that many medium-sized companies that were affected by the 2007 post-election violence are leading in safeguarding their businesses. Peaceful pollsThe fact that investors are confident that elections in Kenya will be largely peaceful is positive news not only for the country but also the entire East Africa region.