A collection of new research papers on the 1994 Genocide against the Tutsi due to be released by the Aegis Trust, is likely to prove controversial. This is because some of the findings go against popular narratives of the pogrom, while others seek to deepen other constructs of Rwandan society. One paper argues that the number of Hutus who actively resisted the genocide is higher and the extent of resistance by Hutus is underreported. These findings have proven to be controversial and certain powerful people have approached us and expressed their disapproval, said Dr Phil Clarke, the head of research, policy and higher education at Aegis Trust. It is something people know but it has not been systematically looked at and these findings will help bring attention to the issues. The research also showed that many Hutus participated in hiding and rescuing survivors and risked their lives to stop killers. Also, many of them have not been recognised. However, the findings have been termed as exaggerated by some survivors groups in the country. Another research paper focused on the Ndumunyarwanda programme; the findings showed that a certain segment of the population viewed the programme with misgivings. Young respondents view its philosophy and practices as leading to collectivisation of guilt as opposed to the crime of genocide being individual. Jean Pierre Dusingizemungu, the president of Ibuka, the umbrella association for genocide survivors, challenged some of the findings. Especially the suggestion that there were many more Hutus who resisted the genocide and participated in actively rescuing Tutsi, saying if they were that many, then the genocide would not have happened the way it did. If there were many Hutus who did what that research is saying, the genocide wouldn t have happened to the extent it happened. I don t agree with it, said Dr Dusingizemungu. However, he does agree that the Ndumunyarwanda programme was good and helps society heal, but there is a need for diligence while implementing it and it should be carried out by people who are well versed on the country s history. There is a need for more engagement while implementing the Ndumunyarwanda programme. The collective approach cannot bear good results, it is wrong, it should be carried out on an individual level, and the programme needs to move people from death to life, Dr Dusingizemungu added. A genocide survivor who talked to this paper on condition of anonymity, said there are people he personally knew who actively rescued people but have not been talked about or recognised. There are many Hutus who participated in rescuing people and they have not been recognised. I personally know of a group of young people who went around providing medical care to the injured, but they have never been recognised. One of them was a former goalkeeper of Rayon sport, he said. Another research paper said that the Batwa, who are termed as people marginalised by history by the government, found the tag disempowering. Many claimed to be continuously marginalised by the current political system. The tag sees them getting treated like people with a disability, which is not the case, said Dr Clarke. A collection of new research papers on the 1994 Genocide against the Tutsi due to be released by the Aegis Trust, is likely to prove controversial. This is because some of the findings go against popular narratives of the pogrom, while others seek to deepen other constructs of Rwandan society.One paper argues that the number of Hutus who actively resisted the genocide is higher and the extent of resistance by Hutus is underreported. These findings have proven to be controversial and certain powerful people have approached us and expressed their disapproval, said Dr Phil Clarke, the head of research, policy and higher education at Aegis Trust. It is something people know but it has not been systematically looked at and these findings will help bring attention to the issues. The research also showed that many Hutus participated in hiding and rescuing survivors and risked their lives to stop killers. Also, many of them have not been recognised. However, the findings have been termed as exaggerated by some survivors groups in the country.Another research paper focused on the Ndumunyarwanda programme; the findings showed that a certain segment of the population viewed the programme with misgivings. Young respondents view its philosophy and practices as leading to collectivisation of guilt as opposed to the crime of genocide being individual. Jean Pierre Dusingizemungu, the president of Ibuka, the umbrella association for genocide survivors, challenged some of the findings. Especially the suggestion that there were many more Hutus who resisted the genocide and participated in actively rescuing Tutsi, saying if they were that many, then the genocide would not have happened the way it did. If there were many Hutus who did what that research is saying, the genocide wouldn t have happened to the extent it happened. I don t agree with it, said Dr Dusingizemungu.However, he does agree that the Ndumunyarwanda programme was good and helps society heal, but there is a need for diligence while implementing it and it should be carried out by people who are well versed on the country s history. There is a need for more engagement while implementing the Ndumunyarwanda programme. The collective approach cannot bear good results, it is wrong, it should be carried out on an individual level, and the programme needs to move people from death to life, Dr Dusingizemungu added. A genocide survivor who talked to this paper on condition of anonymity, said there are people he personally knew who actively rescued people but have not been talked about or recognised. There are many Hutus who participated in rescuing people and they have not been recognised. I personally know of a group of young people who went around providing medical care to the injured, but they have never been recognised. One of them was a former goalkeeper of Rayon sport, he said.Another research paper said that the Batwa, who are termed as people marginalised by history by the government, found the tag disempowering. Many claimed to be continuously marginalised by the current political system. The tag sees them getting treated like people with a disability, which is not the case, said Dr Clarke.