It s not just the International Criminal Court that should worry the presidential palace if events are anything to go by. Over and again, leaders used to getting their way have lost to NGOs, opposition parties and ordinary citizens who approached the local bench. While Kenya and Uganda mutter about leaving the ICC, South Africa has reversed its decision to withdraw after a challenge in the Pretoria High Court by the opposition Democratic Alliance (DA). READ: South Africa formally revokes ICC withdrawal Three judges ruled in favour of the DA that any step away from the Rome Stature would be at odds with the constitution. President Jacob Zuma s desire to leave stemmed from an effort by the group Lawyers for Human Rights to force an arrest of Sudanese president Omar al-Bashir who, in June 2015, attended a Heads of State Summit near Johannesburg. A warrant from The Hague on a charge of genocide meant any ICC member was compelled to detain him on sight. READ:South Africa to appear at ICC in April over Sudan's Bashir President Zuma and his ministers hatched a plan to whisk their guest out of the country and, since then, no one wanted at The Hague has dared enter South Africa. The ICC has also asked Uganda to explain why President al-Bashir was allowed to attend President Museveni s inauguration in May 2016. Further afield, tyrants are being tested not by global justice but in local courts. And for the most part, they are losing on a continent with more democracy now than at any time in history. In Nairobi, athletes sued officials who allegedly stole money meant to cover their expenses at the 2016 Rio Olympics. If the matter is not resolved, there are fears Kenya could be barred from future games. Zimbabweans detained for protesting against President Robert Mugabe were released by the court after they challenged the legality of their arrest. In Nigeria, a local court has thrown out Abuja s effort to stop Biafran separatist, Nnamdi Kanu, from taking his case to be heard by judges from the regional body, Economic Community of West African States (Ecowas). He is suing the state for $800 million, claiming a lengthy detention and alleged abuse have violated his rights. Former Gambian strongman, Yahya Jammeh, who fled the country in January faces multiple charges of murder, torture and embezzlement. The new African Court on Human and Peoples Rights, based in Arusha, has been inundated with cases from NGOs and individuals including 50 from Tanzania alone. Four of the court s 11 judges are from East Africa, with Kenyan lawyer Ben Kioko serving as vice president. But it s not all good news. According to a new, continent-wide poll, 30 per cent of respondents paid a bribe before getting help from the courts. It s not just the International Criminal Court that should worry the presidential palace if events are anything to go by. Over and again, leaders used to getting their way have lost to NGOs, opposition parties and ordinary citizens who approached the local bench. While Kenya and Uganda mutter about leaving the ICC, South Africa has reversed its decision to withdraw after a challenge in the Pretoria High Court by the opposition Democratic Alliance (DA). READ: South Africa formally revokes ICC withdrawalThree judges ruled in favour of the DA that any step away from the Rome Stature would be at odds with the constitution. President Jacob Zuma s desire to leave stemmed from an effort by the group Lawyers for Human Rights to force an arrest of Sudanese president Omar al-Bashir who, in June 2015, attended a Heads of State Summit near Johannesburg. A warrant from The Hague on a charge of genocide meant any ICC member was compelled to detain him on sight. READ:South Africa to appear at ICC in April over Sudan's Bashir President Zuma and his ministers hatched a plan to whisk their guest out of the country and, since then, no one wanted at The Hague has dared enter South Africa. The ICC has also asked Uganda to explain why President al-Bashir was allowed to attend President Museveni s inauguration in May 2016. Further afield, tyrants are being tested not by global justice but in local courts. And for the most part, they are losing on a continent with more democracy now than at any time in history. In Nairobi, athletes sued officials who allegedly stole money meant to cover their expenses at the 2016 Rio Olympics. If the matter is not resolved, there are fears Kenya could be barred from future games. Zimbabweans detained for protesting against President Robert Mugabe were released by the court after they challenged the legality of their arrest. In Nigeria, a local court has thrown out Abuja s effort to stop Biafran separatist, Nnamdi Kanu, from taking his case to be heard by judges from the regional body, Economic Community of West African States (Ecowas). He is suing the state for $800 million, claiming a lengthy detention and alleged abuse have violated his rights. Former Gambian strongman, Yahya Jammeh, who fled the country in January faces multiple charges of murder, torture and embezzlement. The new African Court on Human and Peoples Rights, based in Arusha, has been inundated with cases from NGOs and individuals including 50 from Tanzania alone. Four of the court s 11 judges are from East Africa, with Kenyan lawyer Ben Kioko serving as vice president.But it s not all good news. According to a new, continent-wide poll, 30 per cent of respondents paid a bribe before getting help from the courts.