Whether in Tanzania, Uganda, Rwanda or Kenya, there are several destinations to visit or spend the Easter break. Treat yourself and see places you ve never been to before. Here are some sites that you can easily go to, to get away from the hustle and bustle of everyday life. Murchison Falls National Park, Uganda You can go on a game drive and see a wide range of animals at the Murchison Falls in Uganda. PHOTO|FILE The park s waterfall is a popular destination. Paara Safari Lodge and Chobe Safari Lodge are ideal places to stay when visiting the area. You can go on a game drive and see a wide range of animals , or go fishing. It is a relaxing getaway from the hustle and bustle of city life for a quiet Easter break. Lake Victoria Serena, Uganda Lake Victoria Serena Golf Resort and Spa. PHOTO|FILE The Lake Victoria Serena Golf Resort and Spa is situated amid terraced rose gardens. A gently rounded bay, studded with acacia trees, the hotel s marina is encircled by the immaculate greens of the resort s own PGA-affiliated championship golf course. It is spanned by rustic bridges and enhanced by gentle bays where a wide array of water birds gather. Mfangano Island Camp, Kenya Mfangano Island Camp in Kenya. PHOTO|FILE The camp is situated on Mfangano Island in Lake Victoria, and is part of the Governor s Camps. You can enjoy birding, fishing expeditions, sundowners or simply whiling away time by the pool. Whether in Tanzania, Uganda, Rwanda or Kenya, there are several destinations to visit or spend the Easter break. Treat yourself and see places you ve never been to before. Here are some sites that you can easily go to, to get away from the hustle and bustle of everyday life.Murchison Falls National Park, UgandaYou can go on a game drive and see a wide range of animals at the Murchison Falls in Uganda. PHOTO|FILEThe park s waterfall is a popular destination. Paara Safari Lodge and Chobe Safari Lodge are ideal places to stay when visiting the area. You can go on a game drive and see a wide range of animals , or go fishing. It is a relaxing getaway from the hustle and bustle of city life for a quiet Easter break. Lake Victoria Serena, UgandaLake Victoria Serena Golf Resort and Spa. PHOTO|FILE The Lake Victoria Serena Golf Resort and Spa is situated amid terraced rose gardens. A gently rounded bay, studded with acacia trees, the hotel s marina is encircled by the immaculate greens of the resort s own PGA-affiliated championship golf course. It is spanned by rustic bridges and enhanced by gentle bays where a wide array of water birds gather.Mfangano Island Camp, KenyaMfangano Island Camp in Kenya. PHOTO|FILEThe camp is situated on Mfangano Island in Lake Victoria, and is part of the Governor s Camps. You can enjoy birding, fishing expeditions, sundowners or simply whiling away time by the pool.