As Nakumatt Holdings awaits a cash injection for 25 per cent of its equity, its Ugandan suppliers and landlords are clamouring to be paid, as claims of fraud compound the regional retailer s woes. Mpororo Group Ltd, Bright Rwamirama and Florence Rwamirama have filed suit at the High Court s Commercial Division seeking orders to be paid $569,339 and legal costs. Mr Rwamirama is a minister in the government and Florence is his wife. According to court documents filed on April 12, 2017, the three plaintiffs say that the amount is accumulated rent for Nakumatt s store in Mbarara, western Uganda. The suit emerges from a tenancy agreement entered into in September 2011. The suit puts at risk all property held by Nakumatt (U) Ltd ahead of any other court orders. Default It reveals that Nakumatt started to default from 2013 forcing the plaintiff to dispatch protest letters that were acknowledged by Nakumatt. The retailer promised to make good the debts. An e-mail presented as part of court documents shows that Nakumatt executive director Atul Shah acknowledged the indebtedness. He promised to pay up but pleaded for time, as discussed, we will try and pay part of the rent by Tuesday next week, please bear with us on the delays as we sort our restructuring, Mr Shah wrote on March 31, 2017. Indeed, it paid arrears for June, July and August 2016, via cheques but subsequent cheques were not honoured by the banks, attracting an extra accusation of fraud against the retailer by the landlords. In a shocker, the defendant has been claiming VAT refunds every time the plaintiffs have invoiced for the money that the defendant has not paid. This now stands at $46,357 on VAT claimed irregularly on money not yet remitted to the plaintiffs account, reads the plaint. Irregular VAT claims and issuing of bouncing cheques are criminal offences under the Penal Code. The plaintiffs further argue that before subleasing the premises, Nakumatt demanded that physical adjustments be made to suit its supermarket needs, which necessitated borrowing from the bank to effect the changes as demanded. As Nakumatt Holdings awaits a cash injection for 25 per cent of its equity, its Ugandan suppliers and landlords are clamouring to be paid, as claims of fraud compound the regional retailer s woes. Mpororo Group Ltd, Bright Rwamirama and Florence Rwamirama have filed suit at the High Court s Commercial Division seeking orders to be paid $569,339 and legal costs. Mr Rwamirama is a minister in the government and Florence is his wife. According to court documents filed on April 12, 2017, the three plaintiffs say that the amount is accumulated rent for Nakumatt s store in Mbarara, western Uganda. The suit emerges from a tenancy agreement entered into in September 2011. The suit puts at risk all property held by Nakumatt (U) Ltd ahead of any other court orders. DefaultIt reveals that Nakumatt started to default from 2013 forcing the plaintiff to dispatch protest letters that were acknowledged by Nakumatt. The retailer promised to make good the debts.An e-mail presented as part of court documents shows that Nakumatt executive director Atul Shah acknowledged the indebtedness. He promised to pay up but pleaded for time, as discussed, we will try and pay part of the rent by Tuesday next week, please bear with us on the delays as we sort our restructuring, Mr Shah wrote on March 31, 2017. Indeed, it paid arrears for June, July and August 2016, via cheques but subsequent cheques were not honoured by the banks, attracting an extra accusation of fraud against the retailer by the landlords. In a shocker, the defendant has been claiming VAT refunds every time the plaintiffs have invoiced for the money that the defendant has not paid. This now stands at $46,357 on VAT claimed irregularly on money not yet remitted to the plaintiffs account, reads the plaint.Irregular VAT claims and issuing of bouncing cheques are criminal offences under the Penal Code.The plaintiffs further argue that before subleasing the premises, Nakumatt demanded that physical adjustments be made to suit its supermarket needs, which necessitated borrowing from the bank to effect the changes as demanded.