Eleven Kenyan banks are set to convert Ksh23 billion ($223 million) in risky Kenya Airways loans into shares in a rare restructuring deal fronted by the Treasury that has seen the lenders also commit to advance the struggling airline working capital. The banks, which include big lenders Equity, KCB Group, Commercial Bank of Africa and Co-operative Bank, will form a new special purpose company through which they will own shares in the struggling national carrier. Jamii Bora, I&amp;M Bank, NIC Bank and Ecobank, Chase Bank, National Bank and Diamond Trust Bank complete the list of lenders that have outstanding loans with the airline. The 11 banks debt will move to equity. They can recover their debt in form of shares, by selling them on the stock exchange, said Transport Secretary James Macharia. News of the conversion of bank loans into shares came a day after the Treasury announced that it would also convert its Ksh25 billion ($242 million) KQ loans into shares. The Treasury owns 29.8 per cent of KQ while KLM has a 26.7 per cent stake. READ: Treasury takes $242m stake in KQ rescue bid KQ has reported net losses for five consecutive years. It narrowed its net loss for the 12 months to March by 60.9 per cent to Ksh10.2 billion ($ 102 million). Details of the deal with the banks are contained in a sessional paper tabled by National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale in the House on Wednesday, with a request to MPs to fast-track it before they break for recess next Thursday. The document, drafted by Treasury Secretary Henry Rotich, shows that the banks are free to offload their shares on the open market anytime over the next decade to recover their outstanding funds. Government support However, if KQ s share price will not have risen sufficiently to cover their exposure by 2027, the government has guaranteed to step in and pay these local banks a lump sum of $75 million (Ksh7.7 billion). In the case of liquidation, which is what the intricate restructuring plan is trying to prevent, the Treasury will wire Ksh28.8 billion ($278 million) to the 11 banks placing a heavy burden on the economy and taxpayers. READ: KQ offers debt swap plan in search for capital Several executives of the affected banks, who spoke to the Business Daily on condition of anonymity, said they are getting into the deal because it is the only option of getting our money back . Their grumble is that, over and above further extending the life of the facilities, they are being forced to partner and become owners of a company which may not have been in their radar in the first place. Eleven Kenyan banks are set to convert Ksh23 billion ($223 million) in risky Kenya Airways loans into shares in a rare restructuring deal fronted by the Treasury that has seen the lenders also commit to advance the struggling airline working capital.The banks, which include big lenders Equity, KCB Group, Commercial Bank of Africa and Co-operative Bank, will form a new special purpose company through which they will own shares in the struggling national carrier. Jamii Bora, I&amp;M Bank, NIC Bank and Ecobank, Chase Bank, National Bank and Diamond Trust Bank complete the list of lenders that have outstanding loans with the airline. The 11 banks debt will move to equity. They can recover their debt in form of shares, by selling them on the stock exchange, said Transport Secretary James Macharia.News of the conversion of bank loans into shares came a day after the Treasury announced that it would also convert its Ksh25 billion ($242 million) KQ loans into shares.The Treasury owns 29.8 per cent of KQ while KLM has a 26.7 per cent stake.READ: Treasury takes $242m stake in KQ rescue bidKQ has reported net losses for five consecutive years. It narrowed its net loss for the 12 months to March by 60.9 per cent to Ksh10.2 billion ($ 102 million). Details of the deal with the banks are contained in a sessional paper tabled by National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale in the House on Wednesday, with a request to MPs to fast-track it before they break for recess next Thursday.The document, drafted by Treasury Secretary Henry Rotich, shows that the banks are free to offload their shares on the open market anytime over the next decade to recover their outstanding funds.Government supportHowever, if KQ s share price will not have risen sufficiently to cover their exposure by 2027, the government has guaranteed to step in and pay these local banks a lump sum of $75 million (Ksh7.7 billion).In the case of liquidation, which is what the intricate restructuring plan is trying to prevent, the Treasury will wire Ksh28.8 billion ($278 million) to the 11 banks placing a heavy burden on the economy and taxpayers.READ: KQ offers debt swap plan in search for capitalSeveral executives of the affected banks, who spoke to the Business Daily on condition of anonymity, said they are getting into the deal because it is the only option of getting our money back .Their grumble is that, over and above further extending the life of the facilities, they are being forced to partner and become owners of a company which may not have been in their radar in the first place.