Regional airlines have in the past three months intensified their competition for intra-African and international business, as each positions itself to dominate the most lucrative routes. Rwandan national carrier RwandAir announced on March 29 that it is ready for its maiden entry into Europe, while increasing flights on the Nairobi-Entebbe route. The continent s dominant carrier, Ethiopian Airlines, continues its foray into new routes. In the past week, it launched four new routes from its hub in Addis Ababa to Victoria Falls in Zimbabwe; Antananarivo in Madagascar and Oslo in Norway; and cargo services to Ahmedabad, India. RwandAir said it will start three weekly flights to London s Gatwick Airport on May 26. Chief executive John Mirenge said that they will use their two newly acquired Airbus A330s on the London route. We see this as another way to increase tourism from Europe, and the UK in particular, which is one of the key contributors of tourists to Rwanda, he said. He said that the airline was planning to start flights to New York, Bamako in Mali, Conakry in Guinea and Lilongwe in Malawi. India and China are also on the cards, Mr Mirenge added. RwandAir is banking on the delivery of a new aircraft, a Boeing 737-800, in May to bolster its long-range route plan to destinations like Mumbai in India, and also achieve increased passenger numbers. Already, the airline has announced two back-to-back RwandAir flights between Nairobi and Entebbe. Noting that Africa is still underserved in aviation services, Mr Mirenge said that the carrier plans to hit the million-passenger mark in the next three years. In the next three months to July, we plan to have carried 750,000 passengers, up from 600,000 over the same period last year, he said. Currently, the airline has 11 aircraft, including two Boeing 737-800NGs, two Boeing 737-700NGs, two Bombardier Q-400s and two Bombardier CRJ-900s. It bought two new Airbus aeroplanes in September and December last year, and plans to lease two Boeings for deployment in Europe and Asia, with delivery expected in May. Last month, Ethiopian Airlines launched flights to Conakry, Guinea. It said it plans to start flying to Indonesia and Chengdu, China, in May. The airline, which discontinued flights to Singapore in September 2014 due to low passenger numbers, now plans to resume services on the route. According to OAG (an airline schedules database), Ethiopian Airlines will deploy its Boeing 787-8 Dreamliner aircraft, four times weekly on the Oslo route, and its Boeing 737-700s four times weekly on the Victoria Falls route. Regional airlines have in the past three months intensified their competition for intra-African and international business, as each positions itself to dominate the most lucrative routes.Rwandan national carrier RwandAir announced on March 29 that it is ready for its maiden entry into Europe, while increasing flights on the Nairobi-Entebbe route.The continent s dominant carrier, Ethiopian Airlines, continues its foray into new routes. In the past week, it launched four new routes from its hub in Addis Ababa to Victoria Falls in Zimbabwe; Antananarivo in Madagascar and Oslo in Norway; and cargo services to Ahmedabad, India. RwandAir said it will start three weekly flights to London s Gatwick Airport on May 26. Chief executive John Mirenge said that they will use their two newly acquired Airbus A330s on the London route. We see this as another way to increase tourism from Europe, and the UK in particular, which is one of the key contributors of tourists to Rwanda, he said.He said that the airline was planning to start flights to New York, Bamako in Mali, Conakry in Guinea and Lilongwe in Malawi. India and China are also on the cards, Mr Mirenge added.RwandAir is banking on the delivery of a new aircraft, a Boeing 737-800, in May to bolster its long-range route plan to destinations like Mumbai in India, and also achieve increased passenger numbers. Already, the airline has announced two back-to-back RwandAir flights between Nairobi and Entebbe.Noting that Africa is still underserved in aviation services, Mr Mirenge said that the carrier plans to hit the million-passenger mark in the next three years. In the next three months to July, we plan to have carried 750,000 passengers, up from 600,000 over the same period last year, he said.Currently, the airline has 11 aircraft, including two Boeing 737-800NGs, two Boeing 737-700NGs, two Bombardier Q-400s and two Bombardier CRJ-900s. It bought two new Airbus aeroplanes in September and December last year, and plans to lease two Boeings for deployment in Europe and Asia, with delivery expected in May. Last month, Ethiopian Airlines launched flights to Conakry, Guinea. It said it plans to start flying to Indonesia and Chengdu, China, in May. The airline, which discontinued flights to Singapore in September 2014 due to low passenger numbers, now plans to resume services on the route.According to OAG (an airline schedules database), Ethiopian Airlines will deploy its Boeing 787-8 Dreamliner aircraft, four times weekly on the Oslo route, and its Boeing 737-700s four times weekly on the Victoria Falls route.