Global hotel chain Hilton is close to concluding a management agreement with Ubumwe Grand Hotel after a dispute between the developers and Zinc Hotels, saw the property trade under a traditional name. Hilton will operate the hotel under its Doubletree brand. This will enable it to gain a foothold to compete against other global hotel brands such as Rezidor s Radisson Blu and Park Inn and The Marriott, among others. Doubletree, which is one of the Hilton brands, is in advanced stages of taking over Ubumwe, but the deal is yet to be signed but it is close, said a source close to the deal who asked for anonymity. The $40 million property initially opened its doors as Zinc hotel and was jointly owned by CG Corp Global a company belonging to Nepalese billionaire Binod Chaudhary the Mukwano Group under Acacia Properties and Robert Bapfakurera the only local partner. Acacia Properties cancelled the management agreement it had with CG Corp s Zinc Hotels. It is understood that this matter is still under arbitration. Local stockholder Robert Bapfakurera, declined to comment until the deal is finalised. At this moment the hotel is still Ubumwe Grand Hotel, when the time comes and the company deems it a good time to share, we shall let you know, he said. A number of global hotel brands, like movenpick from Switzerland, Ascot Group, Protea and City Lodge are reportedly keen on venturing into the Rwandan market but have so far failed to find properties to manage. The government said there is a need for more international hotel brands in the country as they attract more visitors. Industry analysts say that although Ubumwe Grand Hotel has done a good job of building its profile, it will benefit from the international distribution channels and brand recognition that Hilton brings. Global hotel chain Hilton is close to concluding a management agreement with Ubumwe Grand Hotel after a dispute between the developers and Zinc Hotels, saw the property trade under a traditional name.Hilton will operate the hotel under its Doubletree brand. This will enable it to gain a foothold to compete against other global hotel brands such as Rezidor s Radisson Blu and Park Inn and The Marriott, among others. Doubletree, which is one of the Hilton brands, is in advanced stages of taking over Ubumwe, but the deal is yet to be signed but it is close, said a source close to the deal who asked for anonymity. The $40 million property initially opened its doors as Zinc hotel and was jointly owned by CG Corp Global a company belonging to Nepalese billionaire Binod Chaudhary the Mukwano Group under Acacia Properties and Robert Bapfakurera the only local partner.Acacia Properties cancelled the management agreement it had with CG Corp s Zinc Hotels. It is understood that this matter is still under arbitration.Local stockholder Robert Bapfakurera, declined to comment until the deal is finalised. At this moment the hotel is still Ubumwe Grand Hotel, when the time comes and the company deems it a good time to share, we shall let you know, he said.A number of global hotel brands, like movenpick from Switzerland, Ascot Group, Protea and City Lodge are reportedly keen on venturing into the Rwandan market but have so far failed to find properties to manage.The government said there is a need for more international hotel brands in the country as they attract more visitors. Industry analysts say that although Ubumwe Grand Hotel has done a good job of building its profile, it will benefit from the international distribution channels and brand recognition that Hilton brings.