If any gallery anywhere in East Africa has yet to hold an exhibition of paintings by Patrick Kinuthia, could they please check their calendars, form an orderly queue and apply to his studio for their chance of a show. Already this year, Kinuthia s pot boiling portraits and confident, broad brushed landscapes have, in Kenya alone, graced the walls of the Art Space, the Tribal Gallery and now the Polka Dot and we are only just into April. In addition to these one-man outings, no mixed exhibition seems complete without his oils. Most galleries keep a few in stock rather than risk being caught out by a sudden request. They include the Little Art Gallery of William Ndwiga in Kisumu, the Polka Dot (of course) and the Tribal (mostly portraits), plus a good supply of all sorts and sizes at Shine Tani s Banana Hill Art Centre. You will not find Kinuthias on show at such prestigious places as the One-Off, the Circle nor at the Red Hill Art Gallery (just too prolific, I fear) although their owners could probably point you in the right direction should you have a sudden urge to buy one. You are unlikely to escape Kinuthia by fleeing abroad, either. His paintings are available from the US (Miami) to Australia (Sydney) taking in Northern Ireland and the UK. In short, when a gallery owner cries in anguish, We ve run out of Kinuthias! you ll know Doomsday is upon us. This may lead you to suspect that plenty does not equate with quality, but you would be wrong. For Kinuthia is a very good painter. It is just that we see so much of his work that we tend to take him for granted; to write him off as a jobbing artist, a competent but primarily commercial painter churning them out and plying his honest trade. He is all of those but his work is also rather fine. This has been recognised by those who know a painting when they see it. He has, for example, inspired a younger generation of artists, some of them now famous in their own right. One thinks for example of a young Peterson Kamwathi heading for school and pausing to be inspired by, of all things, the precision of Kinuthia s snoozing leopards, displayed in the front window of the framer Essajee Amijee when they were in Nairobi s CBD near the Meridian Hotel. I have no doubt Kinuthia s confident handling of portraits and landscapes has encouraged many others to take up art as an interest if not a job. Simply because his work is so prevalent that he makes ubiquity seem like a synonym for exclusive is no reason to dismiss his paintings or at least most of them. He has such a high work rate that inevitably there are a few misses, and in the case of his landscapes these can be seen quite clearly. They usually stem from enthusiastically dashing on the paint without thinking about where it is going or what it might be saying. If any gallery anywhere in East Africa has yet to hold an exhibition of paintings by Patrick Kinuthia, could they please check their calendars, form an orderly queue and apply to his studio for their chance of a show.Already this year, Kinuthia s pot boiling portraits and confident, broad brushed landscapes have, in Kenya alone, graced the walls of the Art Space, the Tribal Gallery and now the Polka Dot and we are only just into April.In addition to these one-man outings, no mixed exhibition seems complete without his oils. Most galleries keep a few in stock rather than risk being caught out by a sudden request.They include the Little Art Gallery of William Ndwiga in Kisumu, the Polka Dot (of course) and the Tribal (mostly portraits), plus a good supply of all sorts and sizes at Shine Tani s Banana Hill Art Centre. You will not find Kinuthias on show at such prestigious places as the One-Off, the Circle nor at the Red Hill Art Gallery (just too prolific, I fear) although their owners could probably point you in the right direction should you have a sudden urge to buy one.You are unlikely to escape Kinuthia by fleeing abroad, either. His paintings are available from the US (Miami) to Australia (Sydney) taking in Northern Ireland and the UK.In short, when a gallery owner cries in anguish, We ve run out of Kinuthias! you ll know Doomsday is upon us. This may lead you to suspect that plenty does not equate with quality, but you would be wrong. For Kinuthia is a very good painter. It is just that we see so much of his work that we tend to take him for granted; to write him off as a jobbing artist, a competent but primarily commercial painter churning them out and plying his honest trade.He is all of those but his work is also rather fine.This has been recognised by those who know a painting when they see it.He has, for example, inspired a younger generation of artists, some of them now famous in their own right. One thinks for example of a young Peterson Kamwathi heading for school and pausing to be inspired by, of all things, the precision of Kinuthia s snoozing leopards, displayed in the front window of the framer Essajee Amijee when they were in Nairobi s CBD near the Meridian Hotel.I have no doubt Kinuthia s confident handling of portraits and landscapes has encouraged many others to take up art as an interest if not a job. Simply because his work is so prevalent that he makes ubiquity seem like a synonym for exclusive is no reason to dismiss his paintings or at least most of them.He has such a high work rate that inevitably there are a few misses, and in the case of his landscapes these can be seen quite clearly. They usually stem from enthusiastically dashing on the paint without thinking about where it is going or what it might be saying.