The science and research community in the country is concerned about the lack of reliable data sources needed to facilitate studies that could improve the country s socio-economic transformation. The concerns on outdated or missing data were raised during the launch of the Africa Capacity Report 2017, which examines the continent s science, technology and innovation (STI) landscape and also provides recommendations for STI use in the implementation of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Rwanda was ranked third on the capacity index with a score of 68.2. Morocco scored 71.6 while the Central African Republic scored 33.1. While the country s top ranking suggests a good performance, Rwanda is one of countries where up-to-date data is missing in some areas, which hampers local research in STI. For instance one of the report s key findings was on the ratio of 54 researchers for every one million people in the country, figures that were gathered back in 2009 while the percentage of women researchers are missing for the 2010-2014 period. In 2009 women researchers stood at 21.8 per cent. Lack of this data meant it was not easy to find out the number of female researchers and innovation projects in the country, said Eugenia Kayitesi, the executive director of the Institute for Policy Analysis and Research IPAR-Rwanda, a local think tank that collaborated with The African Capacity Building Foundation. We have STI policies and institutions, but data is still scattered everywhere. We need this data so that we can implement our development plans, she added, while speaking at the launch of the report. Gordon Kalema, the Principal Senior Technologist in charge of e-government services co-ordination at the Ministry of Youth and ICT assured researchers that data was available but it needed to be made more accessible. He told the research community the draft data policy known as Data Revolution Policy was ready and was only pending the Prime Minister s signature. However, it was noted that the draft policy was not new and was supposed to have been approved early this year. The policy is expected to centralise data in an online portal and government agencies are required to avail data to users in a timely and accessible manner. The biggest issue here is that data is not centralised, said Aimee Ntsinda, a researcher who worked on the Rwanda case study for Africa Capacity Research. According to The African Capacity Building Foundation, the findings will mainly serve in the implementation of Africa s Agenda 2063 and SDGs. One of the key recommendation for governments is to creat the right environment by formulating good policies, creating efficient institutions of implementation, follow-up, offering financial resources and improving investments in human resources. Science is not effective if people s lives are not transformed, said Mr Kalema, commenting on the importance of STI and related studies. The science and research community in the country is concerned about the lack of reliable data sources needed to facilitate studies that could improve the country s socio-economic transformation.The concerns on outdated or missing data were raised during the launch of the Africa Capacity Report 2017, which examines the continent s science, technology and innovation (STI) landscape and also provides recommendations for STI use in the implementation of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).Rwanda was ranked third on the capacity index with a score of 68.2. Morocco scored 71.6 while the Central African Republic scored 33.1. While the country s top ranking suggests a good performance, Rwanda is one of countries where up-to-date data is missing in some areas, which hampers local research in STI.For instance one of the report s key findings was on the ratio of 54 researchers for every one million people in the country, figures that were gathered back in 2009 while the percentage of women researchers are missing for the 2010-2014 period. In 2009 women researchers stood at 21.8 per cent. Lack of this data meant it was not easy to find out the number of female researchers and innovation projects in the country, said Eugenia Kayitesi, the executive director of the Institute for Policy Analysis and Research IPAR-Rwanda, a local think tank that collaborated with The African Capacity Building Foundation. We have STI policies and institutions, but data is still scattered everywhere. We need this data so that we can implement our development plans, she added, while speaking at the launch of the report. Gordon Kalema, the Principal Senior Technologist in charge of e-government services co-ordination at the Ministry of Youth and ICT assured researchers that data was available but it needed to be made more accessible.He told the research community the draft data policy known as Data Revolution Policy was ready and was only pending the Prime Minister s signature.However, it was noted that the draft policy was not new and was supposed to have been approved early this year.The policy is expected to centralise data in an online portal and government agencies are required to avail data to users in a timely and accessible manner. The biggest issue here is that data is not centralised, said Aimee Ntsinda, a researcher who worked on the Rwanda case study for Africa Capacity Research.According to The African Capacity Building Foundation, the findings will mainly serve in the implementation of Africa s Agenda 2063 and SDGs.One of the key recommendation for governments is to creat the right environment by formulating good policies, creating efficient institutions of implementation, follow-up, offering financial resources and improving investments in human resources. Science is not effective if people s lives are not transformed, said Mr Kalema, commenting on the importance of STI and related studies.