Regional motor vehicle dealer Marshalls East Africa is set to delist from the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) after getting the go-ahead from its shareholders. During an annual general meeting on Monday, the firm s owners passed a special resolution that will see the auto dealer exit the bourse on June 19, subject to regulatory approvals. The investors also approved the sale of a 16.86 per cent minority stake to Global Limited. The special resolution was passed by a majority of shareholders exceeding the minimum threshold of 75 per cent of security holders Marshalls said in a statement on Tuesday. Global Ltd currently holds 13.9 per cent stake in the auto dealer and has offered to buy the shares of minority investors, who wish to exit the firm after its delisting from the NSE, at a premium of Ksh10.75 ($0.1) per share. The stock is currently trading at around Ksh9.30 ($0.09) per share. Marshalls said exiting from the Nairobi bourse would allow it space to restructure its business and cut operational costs. The motor dealer was pushed into losses in recent years as a result of an influx of second-hand cars and increased competition. The loss of an exclusive dealership contract with Peugeot compounded the declining fortunes. Marshalls currently stocks KIA vehicles. Regional motor vehicle dealer Marshalls East Africa is set to delist from the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) after getting the go-ahead from its shareholders. During an annual general meeting on Monday, the firm s owners passed a special resolution that will see the auto dealer exit the bourse on June 19, subject to regulatory approvals.The investors also approved the sale of a 16.86 per cent minority stake to Global Limited. The special resolution was passed by a majority of shareholders exceeding the minimum threshold of 75 per cent of security holders Marshalls said in a statement on Tuesday.Global Ltd currently holds 13.9 per cent stake in the auto dealer and has offered to buy the shares of minority investors, who wish to exit the firm after its delisting from the NSE, at a premium of Ksh10.75 ($0.1) per share.The stock is currently trading at around Ksh9.30 ($0.09) per share.Marshalls said exiting from the Nairobi bourse would allow it space to restructure its business and cut operational costs.The motor dealer was pushed into losses in recent years as a result of an influx of second-hand cars and increased competition.The loss of an exclusive dealership contract with Peugeot compounded the declining fortunes.Marshalls currently stocks KIA vehicles.