Two local companies have taken the Rwanda Development Board (RDB) to court, accusing it of irregularities in registering trademarks and the failure to protect them against unfair competition. Chicken Inn Ltd and Pizza Inn Ltd, contest the registration of similar trademarks by multinational company Innscor International, which registered Chicken Inn and Pizza Inn as its trademarks in 2014. The office of the Registrar-General recorded the two trademarks, even though they did not fulfil the requirements set by the intellectual property law and did not follow the registration process set by the same law, said Mugengangabo Jean Nepomuscene, a lawyer for the two companies. The case was due to be heard on May 3 but the hearing was adjourned because RDB failed to appear in court despite being duly summoned. In a letter sent to the court, Kayigi Kajuga Leon, a state lawyer attached to RDB asked the court to reschedule the hearing. Due process The suit against RDB followed a letter from the two applicants requesting the Registrar-General to invalidate the contested trademarks. In its answer to the request, the office of the Registrar-General advised the applicants to take up the matter with the Commercial Court. Any interested person may request the court to invalidate the registration of a trademark, said Registrar-General Louise Kanyonga. He was quoting a provision of the intellectual property law, which gives the court power to invalidate the registration of a trademark, if the contestant proves that one or more of the requirements for registration have not been satisfied. According to the applicants, the marks contested are imitative, confusing and can lead to unfair competition to the detriment of Chicken Inn Ltd and Pizza Inn Ltd in case they are not deregistered. They also raise concerns about RDB supposedly not following the due process in registering Innscor International because it did not submit any documents showing its identity. The case against RDB is a new twist in an ongoing battle for distinctive signs between the two fast food startups and Innscor, which is involved in the same business. Mid last year, Innscor petitioned the commercial court for an order to stop the two Rwandan companies from using the chicken inn and pizza inn names. However, the case is yet to be heard due to a procedural issue raised by the parties. The case will be heard in July. Related stories: Two local companies have taken the Rwanda Development Board (RDB) to court, accusing it of irregularities in registering trademarks and the failure to protect them against unfair competition.Chicken Inn Ltd and Pizza Inn Ltd, contest the registration of similar trademarks by multinational company Innscor International, which registered Chicken Inn and Pizza Inn as its trademarks in 2014. The office of the Registrar-General recorded the two trademarks, even though they did not fulfil the requirements set by the intellectual property law and did not follow the registration process set by the same law, said Mugengangabo Jean Nepomuscene, a lawyer for the two companies.The case was due to be heard on May 3 but the hearing was adjourned because RDB failed to appear in court despite being duly summoned.In a letter sent to the court, Kayigi Kajuga Leon, a state lawyer attached to RDB asked the court to reschedule the hearing.Due processThe suit against RDB followed a letter from the two applicants requesting the Registrar-General to invalidate the contested trademarks.In its answer to the request, the office of the Registrar-General advised the applicants to take up the matter with the Commercial Court. Any interested person may request the court to invalidate the registration of a trademark, said Registrar-General Louise Kanyonga. He was quoting a provision of the intellectual property law, which gives the court power to invalidate the registration of a trademark, if the contestant proves that one or more of the requirements for registration have not been satisfied. According to the applicants, the marks contested are imitative, confusing and can lead to unfair competition to the detriment of Chicken Inn Ltd and Pizza Inn Ltd in case they are not deregistered.They also raise concerns about RDB supposedly not following the due process in registering Innscor International because it did not submit any documents showing its identity.The case against RDB is a new twist in an ongoing battle for distinctive signs between the two fast food startups and Innscor, which is involved in the same business.Mid last year, Innscor petitioned the commercial court for an order to stop the two Rwandan companies from using the chicken inn and pizza inn names. However, the case is yet to be heard due to a procedural issue raised by the parties. The case will be heard in July.Related stories: