Ayeta Anne Wangusa is the executive director of Culture and Development East Africa (CDEA), a creative think tank based in Dar es Salaam. She is currently a member of the Unesco Expert Facility for the 2005 Convention (2016-2017). CDEA s programming revolves around research, policy analysis, advocacy, creative incubation and acceleration in the fashion and accessories design, film and music. CDEA also hosts a Pan-African Writers Lounge where it organises public readings and conversations. Wangusa was born in Kampala, Uganda but moved to Tanzania after getting married 13 years ago. She holds a master s degree in new media, governance and democracy from the University of Leicester, UK and a Master s in Literature from Makerere University, Uganda. She works in the areas of cultural policy, creative economy and imagining the future creativity, cities, commerce and the environment. She is currently organising the first inaugural regional Mashariki Creative Economy Impact Investment Conference scheduled for May 11-12, an activity of the Danida-funded project Research in Culture and Creative Industries, focusing on the film and music sectors contribution to the creative economy in Tanzania and the EAC Common Market. The conference aims to initiate conversations on impact investment and innovative finance for the creative economy in East Africa. It will also be an opportunity for potential impact investors in creative economy to listen to pitches from selected start ups, SMES and support institutions for creative industries. The outcome of these conversations will be a report that will contribute to the design thinking process of establishing an impact capital vehicle for supporting the creative economy in East Africa. ............................................................................................................. Ayeta Anne Wangusa, the executive director of Culture and Development East Africa. PHOTO| FILE What s your off-duty passion? Surprisingly, my job is what I do for both money and for charity. I have committed my life to supporting the creative community in East Africa. So I spend time researching innovative creative ideas and how I can adapt them to benefit the creative community starting with my current location, Dar es Salaam. If you hadn t turned into who you are now, what would you be? A university lecturer of Literature. What signifies your personal style? This is reflected in my home. Someone once described it as modern rustic style, laced with a piece of Africa. How do you manage your wardrobe I have just one rule: Thursday is dedicated to African wear. It is my moment to be Kitengelicious. But I think I need to work with a stylist. Can a creative out there grab this opportunity? When in East Africa, where are you most likely to be whiling away your time on a Saturday afternoon? I love the ocean, so that will be Slipway, Masaki in Dar es Salaam. Describe your best destination yet in East Africa? Kampala. That is where I was born. Ayeta Anne Wangusa is the executive director of Culture and Development East Africa (CDEA), a creative think tank based in Dar es Salaam. She is currently a member of the Unesco Expert Facility for the 2005 Convention (2016-2017).CDEA s programming revolves around research, policy analysis, advocacy, creative incubation and acceleration in the fashion and accessories design, film and music. CDEA also hosts a Pan-African Writers Lounge where it organises public readings and conversations.Wangusa was born in Kampala, Uganda but moved to Tanzania after getting married 13 years ago. She holds a master s degree in new media, governance and democracy from the University of Leicester, UK and a Master s in Literature from Makerere University, Uganda. She works in the areas of cultural policy, creative economy and imagining the future creativity, cities, commerce and the environment. She is currently organising the first inaugural regional Mashariki Creative Economy Impact Investment Conference scheduled for May 11-12, an activity of the Danida-funded project Research in Culture and Creative Industries, focusing on the film and music sectors contribution to the creative economy in Tanzania and the EAC Common Market.The conference aims to initiate conversations on impact investment and innovative finance for the creative economy in East Africa. It will also be an opportunity for potential impact investors in creative economy to listen to pitches from selected start ups, SMES and support institutions for creative industries. The outcome of these conversations will be a report that will contribute to the design thinking process of establishing an impact capital vehicle for supporting the creative economy in East Africa..............................................................................................................Ayeta Anne Wangusa, the executive director of Culture and Development East Africa. PHOTO| FILEWhat s your off-duty passion? Surprisingly, my job is what I do for both money and for charity. I have committed my life to supporting the creative community in East Africa. So I spend time researching innovative creative ideas and how I can adapt them to benefit the creative community starting with my current location, Dar es Salaam.If you hadn t turned into who you are now, what would you be? A university lecturer of Literature.What signifies your personal style? This is reflected in my home. Someone once described it as modern rustic style, laced with a piece of Africa.How do you manage your wardrobe I have just one rule: Thursday is dedicated to African wear. It is my moment to be Kitengelicious. But I think I need to work with a stylist. Can a creative out there grab this opportunity?When in East Africa, where are you most likely to be whiling away your time on a Saturday afternoon? I love the ocean, so that will be Slipway, Masaki in Dar es Salaam.Describe your best destination yet in East Africa? Kampala. That is where I was born.