Since time immemorial, human beings have wanted to fly so bad that they have spent a lot of time and resources towards this quest. Whether in an aircraft or not, the quest to conquer the skies is both bewildering and sometimes outright insane. Take wing-suit flying for instance, where a flyer is dressed up in a body fitting suit with webbed wings between the arms and legs and dives off an aircraft, raised platform or cliff. The aim here ridiculous as it sounds is to glide through the air like birds do. It doesn t get dumber than this, but if you fancy going out with a bang, this is your ultimate ticket to Valhalla. Patrick de Gayardon, the man credited with the winged suit design, died during a test flight and of the 75 pioneers of winged suit flying, 72 have perished while undertaking this risky pastime. A review of related flying activities like bungee jumping, sky diving or paragliding have one thing in common though the recorded fatality rates are amazingly low. In fact, you are 25 times more likely to have a fatality in a road accident than a sky diving mishap. The United States Parachute Association s 2015 statistics put fatalities at 21 for an estimated 3.5 million jumps that s approximately one fatality per 165,172 skydives. This is a big difference from the 1960s, where there was an average of 3.65 fatalities per one thousand jumps. Extreme sports and hobbies aside, and if you quiver at the very thought of gliding down to earth from the sky, air travel is not much behind when it comes to improved safety records. There has obviously been a quantum leap in the safety processes and procedures in the intervening half century. Regulatory authorities the world over, have overseen development of innovative technologies and procedures to make flying (by whatever method) safer, greener and more efficient. The Aviation Safety Network reported 2016 as the second safest year on record after 2013, which saw one fatality per 11 million people that flew that s about 265 deaths. The 1970s were however ranked as the deadliest in commercial flying, with over 16,000 fatalities recorded with as many fewer flights! What has changed over the years to improve airline safety and have it rank as the safest form of transport? Aside from the improvements in safety management systems, particularly the emphasis on human factors like training and preparedness of crew, technology, namely the introduction of electronics and digital instrumentation has taken centrestage in aviation safety. Since time immemorial, human beings have wanted to fly so bad that they have spent a lot of time and resources towards this quest.Whether in an aircraft or not, the quest to conquer the skies is both bewildering and sometimes outright insane.Take wing-suit flying for instance, where a flyer is dressed up in a body fitting suit with webbed wings between the arms and legs and dives off an aircraft, raised platform or cliff. The aim here ridiculous as it sounds is to glide through the air like birds do. It doesn t get dumber than this, but if you fancy going out with a bang, this is your ultimate ticket to Valhalla. Patrick de Gayardon, the man credited with the winged suit design, died during a test flight and of the 75 pioneers of winged suit flying, 72 have perished while undertaking this risky pastime. A review of related flying activities like bungee jumping, sky diving or paragliding have one thing in common though the recorded fatality rates are amazingly low. In fact, you are 25 times more likely to have a fatality in a road accident than a sky diving mishap. The United States Parachute Association s 2015 statistics put fatalities at 21 for an estimated 3.5 million jumps that s approximately one fatality per 165,172 skydives. This is a big difference from the 1960s, where there was an average of 3.65 fatalities per one thousand jumps. Extreme sports and hobbies aside, and if you quiver at the very thought of gliding down to earth from the sky, air travel is not much behind when it comes to improved safety records. There has obviously been a quantum leap in the safety processes and procedures in the intervening half century. Regulatory authorities the world over, have overseen development of innovative technologies and procedures to make flying (by whatever method) safer, greener and more efficient.The Aviation Safety Network reported 2016 as the second safest year on record after 2013, which saw one fatality per 11 million people that flew that s about 265 deaths. The 1970s were however ranked as the deadliest in commercial flying, with over 16,000 fatalities recorded with as many fewer flights! What has changed over the years to improve airline safety and have it rank as the safest form of transport?Aside from the improvements in safety management systems, particularly the emphasis on human factors like training and preparedness of crew, technology, namely the introduction of electronics and digital instrumentation has taken centrestage in aviation safety.