So you know nothing about the Kudu Philosophy ? Too bad, because that means you understand nothing about the philosophy of African liberation. Still, I ll cut you some slack and explain what this is all about. An old man from one of the countries in southern Africa sat down with young fellows who were bothering him with too many questions that he did not care to answer. But they had to ask, they were there to ask, and he had the duty to answer because that was his job. He was a venerated head of one of the liberation movements in the region who had acquired the status of doyen because of his old age and a long history of engagement. But, mdaala [old man], you have to tell us how you intend to govern your country once you win your Independence; you have to give us some indication as to how the economy will be run and how you will distribute the country s wealth equitably among your people. It was going on and on, till the mdaala decided it was time to end all that jazz. Listen, kwedini [young man], when I was young we used to go out in groups to hunt kudus in the bush, because we knew how delicious kudu meat was. But when we set out to hunt, we did not start by saying how we would divide up the animal once we had killed it. No, we went to hunt and we killed the kudu, and after that, we sat down and decided who would take what part you the forelegs, you the hind legs, you the torso, you the head and you the innards. It is the same thing with this liberation thing. When we have taken power, that is when we will sit down and say, you take this and you take that. Right now, it is too early to discuss those things, and such an exercise may actually derail our struggle. In the fullness of time, the kudu got killed and the group congregated around the carcass, but they are still not decided on how to share the meat. All we can see is that mdaala seems to have the longest and sharpest knife and is busy carving up huge morsels of juicy steak while the kwedinis, empty handed, stare with wide eyes and salivating mouths. Obviously, the kudu philosophy has failed here. This past week has witnessed big celebrations across South Africa to mark the week, 23 years ago, when the people of that country shrugged off the yoke of apartheid, racism and settler colonialism. For the first time all the citizens voted without discrimination in a non-racial election. That was their kudu, and a fat buck at that, when one looked at the fabulous wealth and the alluring promise of the country. Though the mdaala of my story was not South African, the kudu philosophy has failed here too, probably more here than anywhere else in the kudu countries that gained their freedom after lengthy and painful hunts. Mdaala looks like he wants to take the whole kudu for his kraal, leaving nothing for the staring and starving kwedinis, not even the tripe, hooves or horns. But the kwedinis will not give mdaala any respite. They are demonstrating, picketing and toi-toiing against mdaala s inordinate appetite, demanding that he quit as head of the hunting party. You see, unfortunately for mdaala, his people met in Kliptown in 1955 and set down everything that was to be done when the kudu was killed. They called it the Freedom Charter, a comprehensive document detailing all the rights that the citizens of a new, non-racial South Africa would enjoy, including land rights, education, employment, housing and quality social services. The people shall govern, they said. That is why mdaala will not be allowed to run away with the whole kudu alone. To prove this, a court declared this past week that a nuclear power deal that mdaala s people signed worth $76,000,000,000 the mother of all kudus was unconstitutional as it had bypassed parliament. That is the power of a transparent constitutional dispensation. So, if anyone in your neck of the woods suggests that constitutional reforms are unnecessary, you know they want all of your kudu for themselves. So you know nothing about the Kudu Philosophy ? Too bad, because that means you understand nothing about the philosophy of African liberation. Still, I ll cut you some slack and explain what this is all about.An old man from one of the countries in southern Africa sat down with young fellows who were bothering him with too many questions that he did not care to answer. But they had to ask, they were there to ask, and he had the duty to answer because that was his job.He was a venerated head of one of the liberation movements in the region who had acquired the status of doyen because of his old age and a long history of engagement. But, mdaala [old man], you have to tell us how you intend to govern your country once you win your Independence; you have to give us some indication as to how the economy will be run and how you will distribute the country s wealth equitably among your people. It was going on and on, till the mdaala decided it was time to end all that jazz. Listen, kwedini [young man], when I was young we used to go out in groups to hunt kudus in the bush, because we knew how delicious kudu meat was. But when we set out to hunt, we did not start by saying how we would divide up the animal once we had killed it. No, we went to hunt and we killed the kudu, and after that, we sat down and decided who would take what part you the forelegs, you the hind legs, you the torso, you the head and you the innards. It is the same thing with this liberation thing. When we have taken power, that is when we will sit down and say, you take this and you take that. Right now, it is too early to discuss those things, and such an exercise may actually derail our struggle. In the fullness of time, the kudu got killed and the group congregated around the carcass, but they are still not decided on how to share the meat. All we can see is that mdaala seems to have the longest and sharpest knife and is busy carving up huge morsels of juicy steak while the kwedinis, empty handed, stare with wide eyes and salivating mouths. Obviously, the kudu philosophy has failed here.This past week has witnessed big celebrations across South Africa to mark the week, 23 years ago, when the people of that country shrugged off the yoke of apartheid, racism and settler colonialism. For the first time all the citizens voted without discrimination in a non-racial election.That was their kudu, and a fat buck at that, when one looked at the fabulous wealth and the alluring promise of the country.Though the mdaala of my story was not South African, the kudu philosophy has failed here too, probably more here than anywhere else in the kudu countries that gained their freedom after lengthy and painful hunts. Mdaala looks like he wants to take the whole kudu for his kraal, leaving nothing for the staring and starving kwedinis, not even the tripe, hooves or horns. But the kwedinis will not give mdaala any respite. They are demonstrating, picketing and toi-toiing against mdaala s inordinate appetite, demanding that he quit as head of the hunting party. You see, unfortunately for mdaala, his people met in Kliptown in 1955 and set down everything that was to be done when the kudu was killed. They called it the Freedom Charter, a comprehensive document detailing all the rights that the citizens of a new, non-racial South Africa would enjoy, including land rights, education, employment, housing and quality social services. The people shall govern, they said. That is why mdaala will not be allowed to run away with the whole kudu alone. To prove this, a court declared this past week that a nuclear power deal that mdaala s people signed worth $76,000,000,000 the mother of all kudus was unconstitutional as it had bypassed parliament.That is the power of a transparent constitutional dispensation.So, if anyone in your neck of the woods suggests that constitutional reforms are unnecessary, you know they want all of your kudu for themselves.