Last week, the Kenya budget was read almost three months ahead of the East Africa Community June norm. This was in order to accommodate the country s general election on August 8, a week earlier than Rwanda s, which meant there would be no parliament in place to scrutinise the proposals had they been read in the usual slot. With parliament having already passed the Budget Estimates for the fiscal year starting in July, the passage of the Appropriations Bill is expected to be a matter of course with legislators keen to hit the campaign trail. That there will be no diligent scrutiny of the proposals arises from what was left out of the proposals: Income taxes, which await a thorough review in a dedicated legislation, Common External Tariffs for imports into the EAC to avoid distorting markets before Rwanda, Tanzania and Uganda read their proposals. There was also a consensus soon after the reading that everyone, with the exception of the gambling and plastics industries, went home happy. These factors minimise the intense lobbying of MPs that precedes the passage of the Finance Bill, often leading to amendments, even withdrawal, of some taxation measures. The exigencies further suggest that the Customs Union proposals, which will be agreed upon by finance ministers in May, be published in the East Africa gazette and effected in July, will not be exposed to parliamentary scrutiny in Kenya. This leaves the legislatures in the partner states, as well as the East African Legislative Assembly, with the task of ensuring that the measures support equitable growth, attract investment and cushion the region s 150 million people from external shocks. Going by reactions to the Kenya budget, it is clear that striking the right balance between those three objectives is an arduous task. Take gambling, for instance: The minister increasing the tax on proceeds to 50 per cent is unlikely to discourage the addictive habit until the idleness among unemployed youth and other vulnerable groups is tackled through job creation. Instead, administrative caveats to ensure more of the proceeds are channelled towards youth empowerment programmes locally, not funding football clubs abroad as is happening now, would have been a better bet to discourage the habit. Contrast that with plastics, where conservation imperatives struck a blow for a total ban with jobs being the collateral damage. Finance ministers in other countries will be faced with similar challenges, but there are snippets in the Kenya budget that point the way forward for the region. In moving to reduce the budget deficit, contain the wage bill, sustain building of infrastructure; ease the cost of doing business through special economic zones, targeted fiscal incentives for vehicle assembly and tourism; exploit water resources to the full and promote private investment in health, the budget strikes the right chord with many investors. On the social front, expansion of free health insurance to senior citizens and easing the cost of bread and maize meal reflect the human face of capitalism. While appreciating the idiosyncrasies of each country, East Africa should move together on social and economic policies. Nationalistic policies that pit one partner against the other rather than promote the oneness of purpose that globalisation demands should be shunned for the region to prosper. Last week, the Kenya budget was read almost three months ahead of the East Africa Community June norm. This was in order to accommodate the country s general election on August 8, a week earlier than Rwanda s, which meant there would be no parliament in place to scrutinise the proposals had they been read in the usual slot.With parliament having already passed the Budget Estimates for the fiscal year starting in July, the passage of the Appropriations Bill is expected to be a matter of course with legislators keen to hit the campaign trail. That there will be no diligent scrutiny of the proposals arises from what was left out of the proposals: Income taxes, which await a thorough review in a dedicated legislation, Common External Tariffs for imports into the EAC to avoid distorting markets before Rwanda, Tanzania and Uganda read their proposals. There was also a consensus soon after the reading that everyone, with the exception of the gambling and plastics industries, went home happy.These factors minimise the intense lobbying of MPs that precedes the passage of the Finance Bill, often leading to amendments, even withdrawal, of some taxation measures. The exigencies further suggest that the Customs Union proposals, which will be agreed upon by finance ministers in May, be published in the East Africa gazette and effected in July, will not be exposed to parliamentary scrutiny in Kenya.This leaves the legislatures in the partner states, as well as the East African Legislative Assembly, with the task of ensuring that the measures support equitable growth, attract investment and cushion the region s 150 million people from external shocks. Going by reactions to the Kenya budget, it is clear that striking the right balance between those three objectives is an arduous task.Take gambling, for instance: The minister increasing the tax on proceeds to 50 per cent is unlikely to discourage the addictive habit until the idleness among unemployed youth and other vulnerable groups is tackled through job creation. Instead, administrative caveats to ensure more of the proceeds are channelled towards youth empowerment programmes locally, not funding football clubs abroad as is happening now, would have been a better bet to discourage the habit.Contrast that with plastics, where conservation imperatives struck a blow for a total ban with jobs being the collateral damage. Finance ministers in other countries will be faced with similar challenges, but there are snippets in the Kenya budget that point the way forward for the region. In moving to reduce the budget deficit, contain the wage bill, sustain building of infrastructure; ease the cost of doing business through special economic zones, targeted fiscal incentives for vehicle assembly and tourism; exploit water resources to the full and promote private investment in health, the budget strikes the right chord with many investors. On the social front, expansion of free health insurance to senior citizens and easing the cost of bread and maize meal reflect the human face of capitalism.While appreciating the idiosyncrasies of each country, East Africa should move together on social and economic policies. Nationalistic policies that pit one partner against the other rather than promote the oneness of purpose that globalisation demands should be shunned for the region to prosper. 