Rwandan media is in focus on reporting about government policies and government-related events but paying little attention to voices of the people and citizen-centred stories, a recent study shows. The findings were contained in a report on media and policy that was released on May 26 by Pax Press an umbrella of Rwandan journalists keen on promoting democracy and good governance through coverage, deep analysis and citizens participation at all levels. The report faulted local media for publishing or broadcasting content that mainly centres on government policies while not paying attention to the people s voice, making most of the reportage unbalanced. The media covers and reports policy by largely focusing on what is said by public officials, using he said and she said. This limits their ability to influence or contribute to policy outcomes or formulation, said the report. The study found that 71.2 per cent of all local media content covers government policies from high ranking officials such as the president or ministers, against 4.2 per cent of citizens input. The remaining local media content comes from business entities at 6.6 per cent, 8.5 per cent from non-government institutions, while the 2.4 per cent is sponsored content. The report also found that the reporting is largely done in a generalised way rather than in a focused, purposive and analytical manner, limiting their scope of understanding and coverage of issues, which are important to Rwandans. Local media bodies and journalists however blame government institutions for not involving citizens and journalists in the policy formulation process, which in the end leaves journalists with no option but to report about what was said or done. Cleophas Barore, the chairperson of Rwanda Media Commission (RMC) said that journalists and citizens hardly get to know the details of government policies and are only involved later on in the implementation phase. No media involvement For instance, media houses do not get an opportunity to debate with MPs about a draft law that is before parliament. The answer you normally get is to wait for its adoption, said Mr Barore. How can you expect journalist to get views from citizens on policies they have not heard about before? Sometimes journalists struggle to even understand what the policy is about, said Oswald Mutuyeyezu, the City Radio chief editor. Christopher Kayumba, a senior lecturer at University of Rwanda who conducted the survey on behalf of Pax Press said residents from the rural area are left out from local media coverage. Due to a disproportionate focus on national leaders as the main source of news, most of the stories are from Kigali and other urban areas; a factor that illustrates limited focus on citizens and the effect of policies on communities in rural areas, said Dr Kayumba. Content that mainly focuses on government policies and officials was also partly blamed on lack of skills among some journalists, who are unable to look beyond what is said by officials in meetings and press conferences. Rwandan media is in focus on reporting about government policies and government-related events but paying little attention to voices of the people and citizen-centred stories, a recent study shows.The findings were contained in a report on media and policy that was released on May 26 by Pax Press an umbrella of Rwandan journalists keen on promoting democracy and good governance through coverage, deep analysis and citizens participation at all levels.The report faulted local media for publishing or broadcasting content that mainly centres on government policies while not paying attention to the people s voice, making most of the reportage unbalanced. The media covers and reports policy by largely focusing on what is said by public officials, using he said and she said. This limits their ability to influence or contribute to policy outcomes or formulation, said the report.The study found that 71.2 per cent of all local media content covers government policies from high ranking officials such as the president or ministers, against 4.2 per cent of citizens input.The remaining local media content comes from business entities at 6.6 per cent, 8.5 per cent from non-government institutions, while the 2.4 per cent is sponsored content.The report also found that the reporting is largely done in a generalised way rather than in a focused, purposive and analytical manner, limiting their scope of understanding and coverage of issues, which are important to Rwandans.Local media bodies and journalists however blame government institutions for not involving citizens and journalists in the policy formulation process, which in the end leaves journalists with no option but to report about what was said or done.Cleophas Barore, the chairperson of Rwanda Media Commission (RMC) said that journalists and citizens hardly get to know the details of government policies and are only involved later on in the implementation phase.No media involvement For instance, media houses do not get an opportunity to debate with MPs about a draft law that is before parliament. The answer you normally get is to wait for its adoption, said Mr Barore. How can you expect journalist to get views from citizens on policies they have not heard about before? Sometimes journalists struggle to even understand what the policy is about, said Oswald Mutuyeyezu, the City Radio chief editor.Christopher Kayumba, a senior lecturer at University of Rwanda who conducted the survey on behalf of Pax Press said residents from the rural area are left out from local media coverage. Due to a disproportionate focus on national leaders as the main source of news, most of the stories are from Kigali and other urban areas; a factor that illustrates limited focus on citizens and the effect of policies on communities in rural areas, said Dr Kayumba.Content that mainly focuses on government policies and officials was also partly blamed on lack of skills among some journalists, who are unable to look beyond what is said by officials in meetings and press conferences.