One of the most befuddling lessons in my early geography classes was learning about time zones. As a child, it is a bit of a challenge to wrap your mind around the notion that as the sun set where you were, it was rising in another part of the world. But as I learnt that the world has 24 time zones, it seemed normal and acceptable that is until I took a flight across different time zones. Most domestic and regional flights in Africa have travellers crossing just two to three time zones, hence the physiological effects are hardly noticeable. Save for the minor time adjustments, most people notice nothing different owing to the geographical sizes and proximity of most countries on the continent. Earlier this year, Qatar Airways launched the world s longest direct flight from Doha to Auckland a 14,535-kilometre flight crossing 10 time zones. There are many other flights over 15 hours around the world crossing numerous time zones; Doha to Los Angeles, Johannesburg to Atlanta, and Los Angeles to Singapore are just a few such long-haul direct flights. The effects of time zone changes on flyers are usually more noticeable on the longer flights and many sum it up simply as jet lag. Frequent flying over more than three time zones can throw one s circadian rhythm (24-hour cycle in the physiological processes of living beings) out of sync. Biological changes Given that there are certain biological changes outside our control including sunrise and sunset that our bodies go through during the day, travelling across different time zones interferes with this normal flow hence the disorientation most travellers feel. According to studies done on the subject by the American National Sleep Foundation, most people notice that they naturally experience different levels of sleepiness and alertness throughout the day, because of sleep/wake homeostasis and the circadian biological clock. The circadian rhythm causes us to feel more alert at certain points of the day, even if we have been awake for hours and our sleep/wake restorative process would otherwise make us feel sleepier. Once the body clock is out of sync, most people will experience sleep disturbance, difficulty in concentration, indigestion, confusion, irritability, loss of appetite, memory problems and for women even irregular periods. Depending on the individual, particularly where around 10 time zones are crossed in an easterly direction, these conditions can last up to a week. Possible effects There are however pre-existing conditions that could lead to a stroke or heart attack in some individuals, hence it is important to be aware of your health status before such flights. The direction of the long-haul flight determines how quickly one recovers from the effects of long flights through different time zones. One of the most befuddling lessons in my early geography classes was learning about time zones.As a child, it is a bit of a challenge to wrap your mind around the notion that as the sun set where you were, it was rising in another part of the world.But as I learnt that the world has 24 time zones, it seemed normal and acceptable that is until I took a flight across different time zones.Most domestic and regional flights in Africa have travellers crossing just two to three time zones, hence the physiological effects are hardly noticeable.Save for the minor time adjustments, most people notice nothing different owing to the geographical sizes and proximity of most countries on the continent.Earlier this year, Qatar Airways launched the world s longest direct flight from Doha to Auckland a 14,535-kilometre flight crossing 10 time zones.There are many other flights over 15 hours around the world crossing numerous time zones; Doha to Los Angeles, Johannesburg to Atlanta, and Los Angeles to Singapore are just a few such long-haul direct flights. The effects of time zone changes on flyers are usually more noticeable on the longer flights and many sum it up simply as jet lag. Frequent flying over more than three time zones can throw one s circadian rhythm (24-hour cycle in the physiological processes of living beings) out of sync.Biological changesGiven that there are certain biological changes outside our control including sunrise and sunset that our bodies go through during the day, travelling across different time zones interferes with this normal flow hence the disorientation most travellers feel.According to studies done on the subject by the American National Sleep Foundation, most people notice that they naturally experience different levels of sleepiness and alertness throughout the day, because of sleep/wake homeostasis and the circadian biological clock.The circadian rhythm causes us to feel more alert at certain points of the day, even if we have been awake for hours and our sleep/wake restorative process would otherwise make us feel sleepier.Once the body clock is out of sync, most people will experience sleep disturbance, difficulty in concentration, indigestion, confusion, irritability, loss of appetite, memory problems and for women even irregular periods. Depending on the individual, particularly where around 10 time zones are crossed in an easterly direction, these conditions can last up to a week.Possible effectsThere are however pre-existing conditions that could lead to a stroke or heart attack in some individuals, hence it is important to be aware of your health status before such flights. The direction of the long-haul flight determines how quickly one recovers from the effects of long flights through different time zones.