Educated East Africans of a certain age will recall a time when the poem Building the Nation by Ugandan poet Henry Muwanga Barlow was essential reading in school, in the same league as writing by the leading lights in African literature. This six-stanza poem exposed the false hopes of the Uganda Independence project. The elite who succeeded the colonisers took after their predecessors opulent lifestyle as well, abandoning the egalitarian promises of nation building. Now Barlow s last born daughter Philippa Namutebi Kabali-Kagwa has written The VIP Room, a poem about the death of her father a ranking civil servant until his retirement in 1987 at the Mulago National Referral Hospital. The late Ugandan poet Henry Muwanga Barlow, author of Building the Nation. PHOTO| FILE Philippa Namutebi Kabali-Kagwa has written The VIP Room, a poem about the death of her father Henry Muwanga Barlow at the Mulago National Referral Hospital in Uganda. PHOTO| COURTESY The poem offers a depressing examination of the decay of Mulago and by extension the entire nation s healthcare system or its very essence if you will. If Building the Nation is a fitting assessment of the premature birth Uganda suffered at Independence, The VIP room aptly represents the fits and starts that have characterised its story since then. The deeply emotive poem features in Philippa s republished personal memoir, Flame and Song, a 188-page book in which she reminisces about growing up in a Ugandan middle class family in the ever shifting sands of the country s existence as an independent state. The book was released in April 4, 2017 by Sooo Many Stories, an equally new Ugandan publisher whose raison d tre is to shine a light on as many stories as Philippa s as there exists. The publisher secured East African rights to the book, which was initially published last year in South Africa where the author has lived for the past 23 years. Background The account of how Barlow s life slowly ebbed away, in a VIP section of Mulago hospital, tells of the surgeon who was supposed to fix Barlow s broken hip but instead chose to attend a conference; the lab that was supposed to quickly run vital tests but lay derelict; the head nurse who was supposed to supply sterilised bedding but preferred not to, to prevent them from getting soiled, and her juniors who were supposed to monitor Barlow all night but took time away supposedly to attend to other patients. These incidents are all too familiar to many a Ugandan across the country s excuses of healthcare facilities or, for that matter, the public service system in general. At the time Philippa was born in 1964, Mulago ranked among the best hospitals in Africa. So high were its standards that when then president Milton Obote was shot in the neck in 1969 in an attempted assassination, he did not require to be flown out of the country for treatment. Doctors at Mulago successfully stabilised and treated him. Yet in a twist of bitter irony, President Yoweri Museveni, who waged a rebellion against Obote enroute to capturing power in 1986, has not only publicly expressed distrust in Uganda s medical workers, but has also starved them and the health sector generally of adequate funding. He at one time had his pregnant daughter flown on the presidential jet to Germany to have the baby. It is little wonder to many Ugandans therefore that that the Nairobi Hospital and the Kenyatta National and Referral Hospital in neighbouring Kenya have become Uganda s main referral hospitals for its important citizens. The very important persons fly to South Africa, India, Europe and the United States for treatment. Educated East Africans of a certain age will recall a time when the poem Building the Nation by Ugandan poet Henry Muwanga Barlow was essential reading in school, in the same league as writing by the leading lights in African literature. This six-stanza poem exposed the false hopes of the Uganda Independence project. The elite who succeeded the colonisers took after their predecessors opulent lifestyle as well, abandoning the egalitarian promises of nation building.Now Barlow s last born daughter Philippa Namutebi Kabali-Kagwa has written The VIP Room, a poem about the death of her father a ranking civil servant until his retirement in 1987 at the Mulago National Referral Hospital. The late Ugandan poet Henry Muwanga Barlow, author of Building the Nation. PHOTO| FILEPhilippa Namutebi Kabali-Kagwa has written The VIP Room, a poem about the death of her father Henry Muwanga Barlow at the Mulago National Referral Hospital in Uganda. PHOTO| COURTESYThe poem offers a depressing examination of the decay of Mulago and by extension the entire nation s healthcare system or its very essence if you will. If Building the Nation is a fitting assessment of the premature birth Uganda suffered at Independence, The VIP room aptly represents the fits and starts that have characterised its story since then.The deeply emotive poem features in Philippa s republished personal memoir, Flame and Song, a 188-page book in which she reminisces about growing up in a Ugandan middle class family in the ever shifting sands of the country s existence as an independent state.The book was released in April 4, 2017 by Sooo Many Stories, an equally new Ugandan publisher whose raison d tre is to shine a light on as many stories as Philippa s as there exists. The publisher secured East African rights to the book, which was initially published last year in South Africa where the author has lived for the past 23 years.Background The account of how Barlow s life slowly ebbed away, in a VIP section of Mulago hospital, tells of the surgeon who was supposed to fix Barlow s broken hip but instead chose to attend a conference; the lab that was supposed to quickly run vital tests but lay derelict; the head nurse who was supposed to supply sterilised bedding but preferred not to, to prevent them from getting soiled, and her juniors who were supposed to monitor Barlow all night but took time away supposedly to attend to other patients.These incidents are all too familiar to many a Ugandan across the country s excuses of healthcare facilities or, for that matter, the public service system in general. At the time Philippa was born in 1964, Mulago ranked among the best hospitals in Africa. So high were its standards that when then president Milton Obote was shot in the neck in 1969 in an attempted assassination, he did not require to be flown out of the country for treatment. Doctors at Mulago successfully stabilised and treated him. Yet in a twist of bitter irony, President Yoweri Museveni, who waged a rebellion against Obote enroute to capturing power in 1986, has not only publicly expressed distrust in Uganda s medical workers, but has also starved them and the health sector generally of adequate funding. He at one time had his pregnant daughter flown on the presidential jet to Germany to have the baby. It is little wonder to many Ugandans therefore that that the Nairobi Hospital and the Kenyatta National and Referral Hospital in neighbouring Kenya have become Uganda s main referral hospitals for its important citizens. The very important persons fly to South Africa, India, Europe and the United States for treatment.