Private equity firm Catalyst Principal Partners has acquired a minority stake in a regional printing and packaging family business Kensta Group. The deal, whose value remains undisclosed, will see the Nairobi-based firm use the funds to expand its subsidiaries within the region. Kensta chief executive Priyesh Shah said Catalyst s entry showed confidence in the firm as a viable enterprise with potential to grow. Catalyst s investment in our firm is an affirmation of our potential and growth trajectory as we enhance our business, regional presence and product portfolio. Mr Shah said. Catalyst managing director Rajal Upadhyaya said the investment would be used to expand Kensta s subsidiaries in Tanzania, Uganda, Rwanda, Kenya and Zambia. Kensta Group of companies consists of Transpaper and Express Automation with a presence in Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania and Rwanda. It also runs Phiramid in Zambia, selling printing equipment, inks and rubber rollers. Catalyst also has stakes in Chai Bora, ChemiCotex, Effco Solutions, Zenufa Laboratories in Tanzania. In Kenya, it holds stakes in Jamii Bora Bank and Orbit Chemical Industries. In March, the private equity firm announced that it would maintain its regional investment strategy focused on mid-market growth capital investments within fast growth consumer demand driven sectors across East Africa. Private equity firm Catalyst Principal Partners has acquired a minority stake in a regional printing and packaging family business Kensta Group.The deal, whose value remains undisclosed, will see the Nairobi-based firm use the funds to expand its subsidiaries within the region.Kensta chief executive Priyesh Shah said Catalyst s entry showed confidence in the firm as a viable enterprise with potential to grow. Catalyst s investment in our firm is an affirmation of our potential and growth trajectory as we enhance our business, regional presence and product portfolio. Mr Shah said.Catalyst managing director Rajal Upadhyaya said the investment would be used to expand Kensta s subsidiaries in Tanzania, Uganda, Rwanda, Kenya and Zambia.Kensta Group of companies consists of Transpaper and Express Automation with a presence in Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania and Rwanda. It also runs Phiramid in Zambia, selling printing equipment, inks and rubber rollers. Catalyst also has stakes in Chai Bora, ChemiCotex, Effco Solutions, Zenufa Laboratories in Tanzania. In Kenya, it holds stakes in Jamii Bora Bank and Orbit Chemical Industries. In March, the private equity firm announced that it would maintain its regional investment strategy focused on mid-market growth capital investments within fast growth consumer demand driven sectors across East Africa.