Regional lender KCB Group is fighting a $54 million infringement and compensation claim by a contractor who wants the use of software that works with the core banking system stopped. Nagalakshmi Solutions Ltd (NLS) is seeking an injunction against KCB for software infringement rights and is demanding that the bank stop using its software programme, the NLS Offline Branch Solution (Nobs). KCB depends on the programme for back-up in case its core banking systems fail. Through its lawyer Peter Munge, KCB has filed a response seeking a stay of the orders, recommending that the two firms seek arbitration before any of the actions NLS is seeking are granted by the court. The court s decision will be made on April 4. The contract agreement (Clause 6.6) provides that any arising dispute be referred to an arbitrator, whose decision shall be final and binding on all parties. Despite that clause, NLS has proceeded and filed for these injunction proceedings. It is in the best interest that this application be stayed pending reference and determination of the dispute between the parties through an arbitration process, Mr Munge said in his response. The two firms entered into a five-year contract for the installation, use and annual maintenance of Nobs in May 2011, which would serve all KCB branches across the region. In the contract, NLS would support the Nobs service and maintain the channel manager, biller engine and quick pay channels. Court documents show that the two parties had started discussing renewal of the contract last year, but the talks fell through leading to termination of the contract. In its suit, NLS is also seeking orders to bar KCB from using its banking software, seven months after it terminated the agreement. The developers want the region s largest lender by assets to uninstall the software. It is also seeking the have the bank barred from developing a similar system. Pending the hearing and determination of this suit, KCB should be restrained from using the plaintiff s computer software, and generating an imitation of the software, the NLS application states. NLS is also seeking compensation of $2.4 million for the unlawful use of the programme since it terminated the contract with KCB last November, at a daily fee of $20,000 for the 122 days, and a further $51.66 million for lost business. In a letter to KCB in February, Nagarajan Karthik, the chief executive officer of NLS, claims that his firm lost business worth $9 million in Kenya, $14 million in Ethiopia, $3.5 million in Rwanda, $3 million in Malawi and $1.5 million in Myanmar as a result of KCB s malicious and false representation of NLS. The order could affect banking applications such as cash and cheque deposits, withdrawals and the branch support systems. NLS is also asking for an audit of KCB by an independent, credible systems auditor, confirming that their software applications and developments have been removed from KCB servers, central processing and recovery sites. The court documents show that the two firms tried to solve their differences late last year but this failed. I am aware that we all attempted to resolve the issues that arose, but this has not borne any fruit hence should be referred to an arbitration process and not before a court process, KCB Group head of legal service Bonnie Okumu said in his affidavit. Regional lender KCB Group is fighting a $54 million infringement and compensation claim by a contractor who wants the use of software that works with the core banking system stopped.Nagalakshmi Solutions Ltd (NLS) is seeking an injunction against KCB for software infringement rights and is demanding that the bank stop using its software programme, the NLS Offline Branch Solution (Nobs).KCB depends on the programme for back-up in case its core banking systems fail.Through its lawyer Peter Munge, KCB has filed a response seeking a stay of the orders, recommending that the two firms seek arbitration before any of the actions NLS is seeking are granted by the court. The court s decision will be made on April 4. The contract agreement (Clause 6.6) provides that any arising dispute be referred to an arbitrator, whose decision shall be final and binding on all parties. Despite that clause, NLS has proceeded and filed for these injunction proceedings. It is in the best interest that this application be stayed pending reference and determination of the dispute between the parties through an arbitration process, Mr Munge said in his response.The two firms entered into a five-year contract for the installation, use and annual maintenance of Nobs in May 2011, which would serve all KCB branches across the region. In the contract, NLS would support the Nobs service and maintain the channel manager, biller engine and quick pay channels. Court documents show that the two parties had started discussing renewal of the contract last year, but the talks fell through leading to termination of the contract. In its suit, NLS is also seeking orders to bar KCB from using its banking software, seven months after it terminated the agreement. The developers want the region s largest lender by assets to uninstall the software. It is also seeking the have the bank barred from developing a similar system. Pending the hearing and determination of this suit, KCB should be restrained from using the plaintiff s computer software, and generating an imitation of the software, the NLS application states.NLS is also seeking compensation of $2.4 million for the unlawful use of the programme since it terminated the contract with KCB last November, at a daily fee of $20,000 for the 122 days, and a further $51.66 million for lost business. In a letter to KCB in February, Nagarajan Karthik, the chief executive officer of NLS, claims that his firm lost business worth $9 million in Kenya, $14 million in Ethiopia, $3.5 million in Rwanda, $3 million in Malawi and $1.5 million in Myanmar as a result of KCB s malicious and false representation of NLS.The order could affect banking applications such as cash and cheque deposits, withdrawals and the branch support systems.NLS is also asking for an audit of KCB by an independent, credible systems auditor, confirming that their software applications and developments have been removed from KCB servers, central processing and recovery sites.The court documents show that the two firms tried to solve their differences late last year but this failed. I am aware that we all attempted to resolve the issues that arose, but this has not borne any fruit hence should be referred to an arbitration process and not before a court process, KCB Group head of legal service Bonnie Okumu said in his affidavit.