On Tuesday, Kenya s President Uhuru Kenyatta flagged off the new standard gauge railway s cargo service. There was a lot of flowery language at the event. A statement on the website of the presidency, which was more thoughtfully crafted than the speeches at the event, said the railway heralds a new dawn for Kenya, the gateway to the East and Central African region. With the unveiling of the new railway s cargo operations in Mombasa this afternoon, Kenyans and the more than the 300 million residents of the region are set to reap the benefits of efficient transportation of cargo marking a new era where cargo will be moved twice as fast and at a cheaper price. The ceremony was witnessed by thousands of Kenyans together with delegations and representatives from across the world and will forever remain etched in the memory of Kenyans who aspire to see their nation take its place in the new world order of the 21st century. There are many arguments made against the SGR, but the 472 km line from Mombasa to the capital Nairobi was actually done in two and a half years. Now it is to be extended to Naivasha, then farther on to Kisumu, and the plan is that the network will snake on to the Ugandan capital Kampala and to Kigali, Rwanda. Now, in the past 10 or so years, a lot of transport infrastructure has come online in the East African Community. Every country has tinkered with its airport, some like Jomo Kenyatta International, in a major way. We have seen roads linking the EAC countries redone, and one-stop-border posts have mushroomed. However, outside the capitals, you don t run into many East Africans visiting. The recent EAC summit, as an insightful article in The EastAfrican told it, was despondent and gloomy. The cheerfulness and gung-ho atmosphere that attended summits of years gone by has disappeared. Seems the EAC has become like the cow that, however much and well you feed it, just won t grow fat. It s time to steal an idea from the Europeans. They have conjured up all sorts of things that get Europeans who aren t traders, looking for work, or interested in conventional tourism, to get out of their homes and catch a train or flight to another European country. They have all manner of football contests against each other. Their clubs face off, then their national teams. Then they have sing-offs, in the much derided Eurovision Song Contest. The one that I really like, and which has great potential, is the European Capital of Culture idea. Since 1985, a European city has been picked and charged for one year to put on a series of cultural events that speak to European culture. It has been known to transform sleepy European cities into dynamic places. Hundreds of thousands, sometimes millions of Europeans, hit the road for this kind of thing. On Tuesday, Kenya s President Uhuru Kenyatta flagged off the new standard gauge railway s cargo service.There was a lot of flowery language at the event. A statement on the website of the presidency, which was more thoughtfully crafted than the speeches at the event, said the railway heralds a new dawn for Kenya, the gateway to the East and Central African region. With the unveiling of the new railway s cargo operations in Mombasa this afternoon, Kenyans and the more than the 300 million residents of the region are set to reap the benefits of efficient transportation of cargo marking a new era where cargo will be moved twice as fast and at a cheaper price. The ceremony was witnessed by thousands of Kenyans together with delegations and representatives from across the world and will forever remain etched in the memory of Kenyans who aspire to see their nation take its place in the new world order of the 21st century. There are many arguments made against the SGR, but the 472 km line from Mombasa to the capital Nairobi was actually done in two and a half years.Now it is to be extended to Naivasha, then farther on to Kisumu, and the plan is that the network will snake on to the Ugandan capital Kampala and to Kigali, Rwanda.Now, in the past 10 or so years, a lot of transport infrastructure has come online in the East African Community. Every country has tinkered with its airport, some like Jomo Kenyatta International, in a major way.We have seen roads linking the EAC countries redone, and one-stop-border posts have mushroomed.However, outside the capitals, you don t run into many East Africans visiting. The recent EAC summit, as an insightful article in The EastAfrican told it, was despondent and gloomy. The cheerfulness and gung-ho atmosphere that attended summits of years gone by has disappeared.Seems the EAC has become like the cow that, however much and well you feed it, just won t grow fat.It s time to steal an idea from the Europeans. They have conjured up all sorts of things that get Europeans who aren t traders, looking for work, or interested in conventional tourism, to get out of their homes and catch a train or flight to another European country.They have all manner of football contests against each other. Their clubs face off, then their national teams.Then they have sing-offs, in the much derided Eurovision Song Contest.The one that I really like, and which has great potential, is the European Capital of Culture idea. Since 1985, a European city has been picked and charged for one year to put on a series of cultural events that speak to European culture.It has been known to transform sleepy European cities into dynamic places. Hundreds of thousands, sometimes millions of Europeans, hit the road for this kind of thing.