Uganda has differed with Kenya over the decision to terminate the management of their joint railway by Qalaa Holdings of Egypt, saying there are better alternatives to addressing the dispute on concession fee arrears. Uganda Railways Corporation managing director Charles Kateba said the Rift Valley Railways (RVR) concession still stands because there are other options, though URC had no clear decision at the moment. Kenya Railways Corporation last month pulled the plug on the troubled 25-year contract to operate the Kenya-Uganda railway but Mr Kateba said the operator was still in discussions with the Kenya regulator. Until all these processes are fully exhausted, URC cannot take a decision whether to also terminate, said Mr Kateba. READ: 25-year Kenya-Uganda railway deal terminated However, he said, URC was concerned by RVR s failure to meet operating targets especially the concession fees, on which it was behind schedule by nine months. They are not up to date and that s worrying, because they are not supposed to go beyond even by one day. If they do we charge them at the rate of Libor, Mr Kateba said. In January, KRC managing director Atanas Maina put RVR on notice to terminate the concession, over unpaid fees to the tune of Ksh600 million ($6 million) and failure to meet other targets. In March, the Kenyan parastatal officials travelled to Kampala to meet their counterparts in Uganda. Since day one when they took over the operations of the Kenya-Uganda rail line in 2006, RVR has been dogged by failure to meet targets, first failing to pay the concession fees of $3 million and $2 million for KRC and URC respectively. The concessionaire could be handed a lifeline if the owners allow the operator to borrow or bring in new investors as provided in the contract. A government official in Kampala says a decision whether to terminate, allow refinancing or bring on board more investors will be made by this time next week. Lenders and suppliers are among those looking for a quick resolution as they are also owed $164 million. KRC cited defaults on various parameters of the concession agreement. RVR managed two weeks ago to get a 30-day relief after the High Court put an injunction on the execution of the termination notice but the company was still inundated with enquiries because KRC had copied the termination notice to all the lenders. KRC has ignited a panic and now everyone is calling to know the status of their contract with RVR, said a source. Among the lenders to which RVR owes millions of dollars are the International Finance Corporation ($22 million), the Dutch Development Bank ($20 million) and Belgian Investment Company for Developing Countries ($10 million). Uganda has differed with Kenya over the decision to terminate the management of their joint railway by Qalaa Holdings of Egypt, saying there are better alternatives to addressing the dispute on concession fee arrears. Uganda Railways Corporation managing director Charles Kateba said the Rift Valley Railways (RVR) concession still stands because there are other options, though URC had no clear decision at the moment. Kenya Railways Corporation last month pulled the plug on the troubled 25-year contract to operate the Kenya-Uganda railway but Mr Kateba said the operator was still in discussions with the Kenya regulator. Until all these processes are fully exhausted, URC cannot take a decision whether to also terminate, said Mr Kateba. READ: 25-year Kenya-Uganda railway deal terminatedHowever, he said, URC was concerned by RVR s failure to meet operating targets especially the concession fees, on which it was behind schedule by nine months. They are not up to date and that s worrying, because they are not supposed to go beyond even by one day. If they do we charge them at the rate of Libor, Mr Kateba said. In January, KRC managing director Atanas Maina put RVR on notice to terminate the concession, over unpaid fees to the tune of Ksh600 million ($6 million) and failure to meet other targets. In March, the Kenyan parastatal officials travelled to Kampala to meet their counterparts in Uganda.Since day one when they took over the operations of the Kenya-Uganda rail line in 2006, RVR has been dogged by failure to meet targets, first failing to pay the concession fees of $3 million and $2 million for KRC and URC respectively. The concessionaire could be handed a lifeline if the owners allow the operator to borrow or bring in new investors as provided in the contract. A government official in Kampala says a decision whether to terminate, allow refinancing or bring on board more investors will be made by this time next week. Lenders and suppliers are among those looking for a quick resolution as they are also owed $164 million.KRC cited defaults on various parameters of the concession agreement.RVR managed two weeks ago to get a 30-day relief after the High Court put an injunction on the execution of the termination notice but the company was still inundated with enquiries because KRC had copied the termination notice to all the lenders. KRC has ignited a panic and now everyone is calling to know the status of their contract with RVR, said a source. Among the lenders to which RVR owes millions of dollars are the International Finance Corporation ($22 million), the Dutch Development Bank ($20 million) and Belgian Investment Company for Developing Countries ($10 million).