Rwanda recently increased fees for gorilla trekking permits to target high-end tourists and raise money for development of communities living around the Virunga Mountains. Foreign tourists will now pay twice as much as before for visiting the gorillas, from $750 to $1,500, while East Africans will pay the same amount as foreign tourists, up from $36 a comparative increase of 4,000 per cent. The move has been criticised for potentially locking out local tourists, and it is feared it will dampen Rwanda s competitiveness against the gorilla experience in neighbouring Uganda and Democratic Republic of Congo. Still, that is not the whole story. Attracting tourists and generating tourism revenues in East Africa is not as straightforward as that there is some method in the madness, and it sometimes seems more of an art than a science, if recent data from the World Economic Forum is anything to go by. WEF s Travel and Tourism Competitiveness Index is an annual ranking of over 130 economies, analysing a host of factors that have an impact on the tourism sector, including a country s overall business environment, infrastructure, safety and security, labour market, visa regulations, environmental sustainability and price competitiveness. Punching far above its weight A scrutiny of the four East African countries with the most vibrant tourism sectors (Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda and Rwanda) brings up some surprises. The research reveals that Uganda is punching far above its weight, despite (or perhaps, because of) government neglect of the sector, and although Kenya has some of the strongest fundamentals and logistics, it is underperforming for a country of its potential. Tanzania, on the other hand, has majored in the high-end approach which is highly lucrative and efficient from a business perspective, but with fewer jobs created on the ground, Tanzania s tourism model may suffer from lack of meaningful linkages with local communities. And Rwanda now looking to double down on Tanzania s strategy has the greatest aspiration, with dazzling marketing campaigns and strategic positioning, though may find itself constrained by factors it has little control over such as its small size. Overall, Kenya s travel and tourism sector is ranked as the most competitive among the four East African economies, according to the 2017 Index, at 80th position globally (see table titled WEF 2017 Travel and Tourism Competitiveness Index ). Second is Tanzania at 91st place, followed by Rwanda at 97th place. Uganda is in fourth place at position 106. However and perhaps paradoxically even with Uganda s low ranking overall, the country had the highest number of international tourism arrivals in 2015, which is the year with the latest available data (see table titled International Tourism Arrivals ). Uganda hosted over 1.3 million international visitors in 2015, surpassing Kenya and Tanzania, both of which recorded just over 1.1 million international arrivals. Rwanda, despite its small size, was not far behind, hosting an impressive 987,000 visitors in 2015. Rwanda recently increased fees for gorilla trekking permits to target high-end tourists and raise money for development of communities living around the Virunga Mountains.Foreign tourists will now pay twice as much as before for visiting the gorillas, from $750 to $1,500, while East Africans will pay the same amount as foreign tourists, up from $36 a comparative increase of 4,000 per cent.The move has been criticised for potentially locking out local tourists, and it is feared it will dampen Rwanda s competitiveness against the gorilla experience in neighbouring Uganda and Democratic Republic of Congo.Still, that is not the whole story. Attracting tourists and generating tourism revenues in East Africa is not as straightforward as that there is some method in the madness, and it sometimes seems more of an art than a science, if recent data from the World Economic Forum is anything to go by.WEF s Travel and Tourism Competitiveness Index is an annual ranking of over 130 economies, analysing a host of factors that have an impact on the tourism sector, including a country s overall business environment, infrastructure, safety and security, labour market, visa regulations, environmental sustainability and price competitiveness.Punching far above its weightA scrutiny of the four East African countries with the most vibrant tourism sectors (Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda and Rwanda) brings up some surprises.The research reveals that Uganda is punching far above its weight, despite (or perhaps, because of) government neglect of the sector, and although Kenya has some of the strongest fundamentals and logistics, it is underperforming for a country of its potential. Tanzania, on the other hand, has majored in the high-end approach which is highly lucrative and efficient from a business perspective, but with fewer jobs created on the ground, Tanzania s tourism model may suffer from lack of meaningful linkages with local communities. And Rwanda now looking to double down on Tanzania s strategy has the greatest aspiration, with dazzling marketing campaigns and strategic positioning, though may find itself constrained by factors it has little control over such as its small size.Overall, Kenya s travel and tourism sector is ranked as the most competitive among the four East African economies, according to the 2017 Index, at 80th position globally (see table titled WEF 2017 Travel and Tourism Competitiveness Index ). Second is Tanzania at 91st place, followed by Rwanda at 97th place. Uganda is in fourth place at position 106. However and perhaps paradoxically even with Uganda s low ranking overall, the country had the highest number of international tourism arrivals in 2015, which is the year with the latest available data (see table titled International Tourism Arrivals ). Uganda hosted over 1.3 million international visitors in 2015, surpassing Kenya and Tanzania, both of which recorded just over 1.1 million international arrivals. Rwanda, despite its small size, was not far behind, hosting an impressive 987,000 visitors in 2015.