A recent accident involving a coaster bus plying an upcountry route has rekindled fears about public transport safety in the country. It also brings to light simmering frustrations among long distance drivers over what they term exploitative employment terms imposed by operators. The accident, which happened last weekend, claimed 14 passengers. It involved a speeding coaster owned by Kigali Safari, which was coming from Musanze, Northern Province, heading to Kigali. It rammed into an oncoming vehicle in Shyorongi, while descending to the city. The grisly accident is one of the many blamed on speeding drivers plying upcountry routes who seek to cover as many trips as possible in a bid to earn more sometimes not getting enough rest. Eye witnesses said the driver was speeding, despite upcountry buses being fitted with speed governors. READ: Kigali in fresh bid to enforce PSV speed rules The spokesperson of the Traffic Police Department at Rwanda National Police, CIP Emmanuel Kabanda could not confirm whether the bus was speeding, but said investigations were ongoing. At this point we are still investigating the cause, but one of them points to an oncoming vehicle being in the wrong. We confirmed 14 passengers died from the accident, CIP Kabanda said. Scramble for passengers Following the head-on collision, the mangled bus rolled down the steep Shyorongi hill and it took police and other emergency services hours to recover the bodies. The scramble for passengers and the rush to make the required trips, as well as meeting daily revenue targets has in most instances been blamed for drivers haste, resulting in crashes and breach of traffic rules in the City and upcountry roads. A field survey by Rwanda Today showed total disregard for the country s labour provisions in the transport sector where many drivers get only three to four hours of sleep per night and are not paid for the overtime. The drivers said they are working without contracts or insurance, while getting little pay that is subject to illegal deductions. While drivers monthly salaries range between Rwf70,000 and Rwf120,000, most end up taking home as low as Rwf15,000 because employers force them to take responsibility for charges on traffic offences as well as compensating for unmet targets. Unworkable targets In Kigali City, for instance, drivers of the popular 35-seater coasters are given a target of ferrying between 750 and 850 passengers each day, failure to which the money is deducted from their pay. If you get into an accident and are hospitalised for two or three months, you don t get medical or accident cover from your employer. When you recover and come back to work, you find that your position has been given to someone else, said Omar Innocent Nshyimiyimana. A recent accident involving a coaster bus plying an upcountry route has rekindled fears about public transport safety in the country. It also brings to light simmering frustrations among long distance drivers over what they term exploitative employment terms imposed by operators.The accident, which happened last weekend, claimed 14 passengers. It involved a speeding coaster owned by Kigali Safari, which was coming from Musanze, Northern Province, heading to Kigali. It rammed into an oncoming vehicle in Shyorongi, while descending to the city.The grisly accident is one of the many blamed on speeding drivers plying upcountry routes who seek to cover as many trips as possible in a bid to earn more sometimes not getting enough rest.Eye witnesses said the driver was speeding, despite upcountry buses being fitted with speed governors.READ: Kigali in fresh bid to enforce PSV speed rulesThe spokesperson of the Traffic Police Department at Rwanda National Police, CIP Emmanuel Kabanda could not confirm whether the bus was speeding, but said investigations were ongoing. At this point we are still investigating the cause, but one of them points to an oncoming vehicle being in the wrong. We confirmed 14 passengers died from the accident, CIP Kabanda said.Scramble for passengersFollowing the head-on collision, the mangled bus rolled down the steep Shyorongi hill and it took police and other emergency services hours to recover the bodies.The scramble for passengers and the rush to make the required trips, as well as meeting daily revenue targets has in most instances been blamed for drivers haste, resulting in crashes and breach of traffic rules in the City and upcountry roads.A field survey by Rwanda Today showed total disregard for the country s labour provisions in the transport sector where many drivers get only three to four hours of sleep per night and are not paid for the overtime. The drivers said they are working without contracts or insurance, while getting little pay that is subject to illegal deductions. While drivers monthly salaries range between Rwf70,000 and Rwf120,000, most end up taking home as low as Rwf15,000 because employers force them to take responsibility for charges on traffic offences as well as compensating for unmet targets.Unworkable targetsIn Kigali City, for instance, drivers of the popular 35-seater coasters are given a target of ferrying between 750 and 850 passengers each day, failure to which the money is deducted from their pay. If you get into an accident and are hospitalised for two or three months, you don t get medical or accident cover from your employer. When you recover and come back to work, you find that your position has been given to someone else, said Omar Innocent Nshyimiyimana.