Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni has told his South Sudanese counterpart Salva Kiir not tolerate impunity against civilians. President Museveni said impunity against civilians by armed forces could breed mistrust between the people and their government. He was speaking at the launch of the National Dialogue Steering Committee in Juba Monday, where he was the chief guest. Don't tolerate impunity in the army. UPDF has built Uganda because we insisted on discipline. We killed soldiers who raped or killed people, President Museveni said. There have been several reports of human rights abuses committed by the government forces against innocent civilians while in combat with rebels. Although President Kiir recently issued a shoot-to-kill order against soldiers accused of raping or murdering civilians, not a single culprit had been brought to book. READ: Kiir issues shoot-to-kill order on soldiers who rape Numerous rape cases committed by government soldiers in Juba and Yei River State were reported last year. READ: Killings continue in South Sudan- UN ALSO READ: South Sudan calls UN rape accusations 'baseless' President Museveni, who is Mr Kiir s close ally, advised the latter to stop hostilities and work for peace and stability. The use of violence in every situation is dangerous. Violence should be a last resort and targeted, not indiscriminate, he said. He also urged President Kiir to give democracy a chance by allowing open discussion of ideas. Speak frankly to each other. Make decisions by consensus. Have regular meetings. Never use force, it should be last resort, he said. The Ugandan leader said continuous hostilities in South Sudan were blocking foreign investment opportunities and generally development. Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni has told his South Sudanese counterpart Salva Kiir not tolerate impunity against civilians.President Museveni said impunity against civilians by armed forces could breed mistrust between the people and their government.He was speaking at the launch of the National Dialogue Steering Committee in Juba Monday, where he was the chief guest. Don't tolerate impunity in the army. UPDF has built Uganda because we insisted on discipline. We killed soldiers who raped or killed people, President Museveni said.There have been several reports of human rights abuses committed by the government forces against innocent civilians while in combat with rebels.Although President Kiir recently issued a shoot-to-kill order against soldiers accused of raping or murdering civilians, not a single culprit had been brought to book.READ: Kiir issues shoot-to-kill order on soldiers who rapeNumerous rape cases committed by government soldiers in Juba and Yei River State were reported last year.READ: Killings continue in South Sudan- UNALSO READ: South Sudan calls UN rape accusations 'baseless'President Museveni, who is Mr Kiir s close ally, advised the latter to stop hostilities and work for peace and stability. The use of violence in every situation is dangerous. Violence should be a last resort and targeted, not indiscriminate, he said.He also urged President Kiir to give democracy a chance by allowing open discussion of ideas. Speak frankly to each other. Make decisions by consensus. Have regular meetings. Never use force, it should be last resort, he said.The Ugandan leader said continuous hostilities in South Sudan were blocking foreign investment opportunities and generally development.