Since its inception in 2011, Primus Guma Guma Super Star (PGGSS) an annual music competition funded by Bralirwa through its premium brand Primus, has received both praise and controversy in equal measure. Now in its seventh season, the music competition pits Rwanda s top music stars against each other for a grand prize of about Rwf24 million and other benefits. The event seems to have evolved but some music enthusiasts feel the size and impact of the show has been downsized, which has seen its popularity reduce. However, Bralirwa Ltd believes the show has evolved in terms of attendance, organisation and impact as a competition aimed at promoting Rwandan music. Julius Kayoboke, the marketing director of Bralirwa says progress has been made in terms of the staging of the shows, their level of class and professionalism. The annual competition is by far the biggest activity in the country s music calendar. It starts in March with media representatives and music producers nominating contestants. Once the final selection has been done, the artistes, who usually 10 in number , embark on a series of corporate social responsibility activities, including supporting genocide survivors and needy communities from April until May when the countrywide roadshow begin. Two road shows have taken place in Huye district on May 20 and in Gicumbi district on May 27 this year. The 10 artistes are Dream Boys, Christopher, Oda Paccy, Danny Nanone, The Active, Queen Cha, Bull Dogg, Davis D, Mico The Best and Social Mula. These artistes will compete for the next two months to win the Rwf24 million grand prize. Improved concerts According to the organisers of PGGSS, on average about 60,000 people attended the first two road shows. Three more road shows will be held in Ngoma, Rubavu, while the grand finale will be in Kigali on June 24. The number of road shows has been reducing, from as many as 17 in previous editions to now five, something organisers say was deliberate in a bid to improve the quality of the concerts. Today, every show is like the final because we want the audience to enjoy the performances and for the artistes to horn their skills for performing live in front of a large audience, said Mr Kayoboke. The 10 artistes perform before a three-man jury made up of Lion Imanzi, Aimable Twahirwa and singer Clementine Tonzi Uwitonze who decide who stays based on the contestant s popularity, vocal intonation, stage appearance and discipline. The public also vote through SMS. Previous PGGSS winners are Tom Close (2011), King James (2012), Riderman (2013), Jay Polly (2014), Butera Knowless (2015) and the Urban Boys (2016). Criticism Critics of the show say PGGSS is behind the faltering showbiz business in the country because of offering free concerts. This affects event organisers who are trying to put together concerts that have entry charges. Since its inception in 2011, Primus Guma Guma Super Star (PGGSS) an annual music competition funded by Bralirwa through its premium brand Primus, has received both praise and controversy in equal measure.Now in its seventh season, the music competition pits Rwanda s top music stars against each other for a grand prize of about Rwf24 million and other benefits. The event seems to have evolved but some music enthusiasts feel the size and impact of the show has been downsized, which has seen its popularity reduce. However, Bralirwa Ltd believes the show has evolved in terms of attendance, organisation and impact as a competition aimed at promoting Rwandan music.Julius Kayoboke, the marketing director of Bralirwa says progress has been made in terms of the staging of the shows, their level of class and professionalism. The annual competition is by far the biggest activity in the country s music calendar. It starts in March with media representatives and music producers nominating contestants. Once the final selection has been done, the artistes, who usually 10 in number , embark on a series of corporate social responsibility activities, including supporting genocide survivors and needy communities from April until May when the countrywide roadshow begin.Two road shows have taken place in Huye district on May 20 and in Gicumbi district on May 27 this year. The 10 artistes are Dream Boys, Christopher, Oda Paccy, Danny Nanone, The Active, Queen Cha, Bull Dogg, Davis D, Mico The Best and Social Mula. These artistes will compete for the next two months to win the Rwf24 million grand prize. Improved concertsAccording to the organisers of PGGSS, on average about 60,000 people attended the first two road shows. Three more road shows will be held in Ngoma, Rubavu, while the grand finale will be in Kigali on June 24. The number of road shows has been reducing, from as many as 17 in previous editions to now five, something organisers say was deliberate in a bid to improve the quality of the concerts. Today, every show is like the final because we want the audience to enjoy the performances and for the artistes to horn their skills for performing live in front of a large audience, said Mr Kayoboke. The 10 artistes perform before a three-man jury made up of Lion Imanzi, Aimable Twahirwa and singer Clementine Tonzi Uwitonze who decide who stays based on the contestant s popularity, vocal intonation, stage appearance and discipline. The public also vote through SMS. Previous PGGSS winners are Tom Close (2011), King James (2012), Riderman (2013), Jay Polly (2014), Butera Knowless (2015) and the Urban Boys (2016). Criticism Critics of the show say PGGSS is behind the faltering showbiz business in the country because of offering free concerts. This affects event organisers who are trying to put together concerts that have entry charges.