A little over a week ago, I participated in an event to discuss budget implementation reports. These reports must be published by national and county governments every quarter. They must, by law, include both financial and non-financial reporting. For example, they should tell us how much the government spent on the health sector, and whether it delivered any services with that money. On the whole, neither level of government produces these reports consistently, in a timely fashion, or with sufficient detail. At the event, we were fortunate to have representatives from the National Treasury, though neither the Controller of Budget nor the Parliamentary Budget Office honoured the invitation. In the back and forth with Treasury and in the plenary, a few interesting things emerged for me. One of these is that there is relatively little thought given to such reports. Citizens, while claiming to be very interested in what happens to public money, do not use the information in these reports. This is partly due to the fact that the reports are late and do not contain that much information. But there is more to it. Little use is made of the data the reports do contain, and that data can be quite relevant to ongoing discussions. For example, the 2015/16 annual report shows that extra money given to the Director of Public Prosecutions and the EACC to fight corruption was not used. This seems quite noteworthy given our current obsession with corruption. On the government side, Treasury appeared to view these reports as simply a matter of compliance. There was little interest in providing explanations on a quarterly basis for performance. Yet the whole point of producing such reports must be to have a regular public conversation about how well we are implementing the budget. Imagine you ran an organisation. Suppose that you sent your staff off to work on various projects. At the end of the quarter, they came back to you and reported that they had finished 80 per cent of one project and 10 per cent of another project. How would you respond? Obviously, you would have to ask them more questions. Why did this happen? What were the challenges in completing the project that is only 10 per cent complete? Without this kind of information, you would not be able to adjust your approach to ensure that you could deliver on your plans. Now imagine that the government tells you that the Ministry of Health spent around 70 per cent of its budget last year, and the State Department for Transport spent 40 per cent. Once again, the same questions would arise: Why did this happen and how should we address it? This is even more critical in the quarterly reports than the annual report, because it is still possible to adjust things before the year is over, particularly for the first and second quarter reports. In our discussion, Treasury noted that the information we were looking for is in the Sector Working Group (SWG) reports. This is a favourite response of government whenever we ask for any information that should be in budget documents but is not. It is worth exploring why this response is inadequate. In the first place, the SWG reports provide information on the previous year s implementation. They do not provide quarterly updates on the progress of the current year s budget. If they contain any of the information we are looking for, it is only annual information, and not the in-year information I have been describing. A little over a week ago, I participated in an event to discuss budget implementation reports. These reports must be published by national and county governments every quarter. They must, by law, include both financial and non-financial reporting. For example, they should tell us how much the government spent on the health sector, and whether it delivered any services with that money. On the whole, neither level of government produces these reports consistently, in a timely fashion, or with sufficient detail. At the event, we were fortunate to have representatives from the National Treasury, though neither the Controller of Budget nor the Parliamentary Budget Office honoured the invitation. In the back and forth with Treasury and in the plenary, a few interesting things emerged for me.One of these is that there is relatively little thought given to such reports. Citizens, while claiming to be very interested in what happens to public money, do not use the information in these reports. This is partly due to the fact that the reports are late and do not contain that much information. But there is more to it. Little use is made of the data the reports do contain, and that data can be quite relevant to ongoing discussions.For example, the 2015/16 annual report shows that extra money given to the Director of Public Prosecutions and the EACC to fight corruption was not used. This seems quite noteworthy given our current obsession with corruption.On the government side, Treasury appeared to view these reports as simply a matter of compliance. There was little interest in providing explanations on a quarterly basis for performance. Yet the whole point of producing such reports must be to have a regular public conversation about how well we are implementing the budget. Imagine you ran an organisation. Suppose that you sent your staff off to work on various projects. At the end of the quarter, they came back to you and reported that they had finished 80 per cent of one project and 10 per cent of another project. How would you respond? Obviously, you would have to ask them more questions. Why did this happen? What were the challenges in completing the project that is only 10 per cent complete? Without this kind of information, you would not be able to adjust your approach to ensure that you could deliver on your plans. Now imagine that the government tells you that the Ministry of Health spent around 70 per cent of its budget last year, and the State Department for Transport spent 40 per cent. Once again, the same questions would arise: Why did this happen and how should we address it? This is even more critical in the quarterly reports than the annual report, because it is still possible to adjust things before the year is over, particularly for the first and second quarter reports.In our discussion, Treasury noted that the information we were looking for is in the Sector Working Group (SWG) reports. This is a favourite response of government whenever we ask for any information that should be in budget documents but is not. It is worth exploring why this response is inadequate.In the first place, the SWG reports provide information on the previous year s implementation. They do not provide quarterly updates on the progress of the current year s budget.If they contain any of the information we are looking for, it is only annual information, and not the in-year information I have been describing.