There is, as expected, controversy about the announcement by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission of Kenya that it will prevent persons with outstanding cases and or unresolved complaints relating to corruption or other unlawful conduct from contesting elective leadership positions in the coming elections. In the view of the IEBC, any person who has an outstanding criminal charge before a court or who is found culpable of any misdeed by a statutory body, such as the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission or the Office of the Auditor-General, should be deemed to have fallen short of the standards of ethics and integrity required of a public officer under the Constitution. Therefore, the IEBC thinking goes, such a person is disqualified from and should not hold public office until he is either acquitted or completely exculpated from the outstanding complaint. While this stance is commendable on the face of it as an attempt to uphold the constitutional values of integrity of public officers, it is likely to get not only contentious, but will also risk exposing the IEBC to accusations of bias and even challenges over its own integrity for a number of reasons. First is the issue of why this understanding of the Constitution and this keenness to uphold its principles has dawned on the IEBC at this election. Honest people must ask why this was not applied to the first election Kenya held under its Constitution of 2010. In 2013, the IEBC did not so much as raise this issue in the face of the then brand new Constitution. Fair-minded persons are likely to think that the IEBC is, at best, applying double-standards and at worst acting at the behest of political forces keen on preventing certain persons from contesting electoral offices. Second, prior to the general election of 2013, a spurious distinction was created between elective public offices and appointive public offices. The result of this thinking held that even if a person were facing challenges as to his or her integrity that would otherwise disqualify them from holding public office, this was to be determined by the electorate if the office in question was one to which occupation is by an election. At the time, the reasoning was that the sovereign right of a people to elect leaders of their choice should not be clogged by claims of want of integrity. This was a judicial decision that the IEBC never sought to challenge. The question then is: What has changed in this election? Third, a reading of the Constitution of Kenya is clear that where charges of a criminal offence have been preferred against a person who is seeking public office, no adverse decision should be made based on the court proceedings until the matter is determined ultimately and all appeal options exhausted. The IEBC s declaration would appear to jettison this constitutional option. The IEBC would do well to take heed that although the issue of integrity and ethics is otherwise thought to be in the realm of conscience and personal views, they morphed into legal questions under Chapter Six of the Constitution. There is, as expected, controversy about the announcement by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission of Kenya that it will prevent persons with outstanding cases and or unresolved complaints relating to corruption or other unlawful conduct from contesting elective leadership positions in the coming elections. In the view of the IEBC, any person who has an outstanding criminal charge before a court or who is found culpable of any misdeed by a statutory body, such as the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission or the Office of the Auditor-General, should be deemed to have fallen short of the standards of ethics and integrity required of a public officer under the Constitution. Therefore, the IEBC thinking goes, such a person is disqualified from and should not hold public office until he is either acquitted or completely exculpated from the outstanding complaint.While this stance is commendable on the face of it as an attempt to uphold the constitutional values of integrity of public officers, it is likely to get not only contentious, but will also risk exposing the IEBC to accusations of bias and even challenges over its own integrity for a number of reasons.First is the issue of why this understanding of the Constitution and this keenness to uphold its principles has dawned on the IEBC at this election.Honest people must ask why this was not applied to the first election Kenya held under its Constitution of 2010.In 2013, the IEBC did not so much as raise this issue in the face of the then brand new Constitution.Fair-minded persons are likely to think that the IEBC is, at best, applying double-standards and at worst acting at the behest of political forces keen on preventing certain persons from contesting electoral offices.Second, prior to the general election of 2013, a spurious distinction was created between elective public offices and appointive public offices. The result of this thinking held that even if a person were facing challenges as to his or her integrity that would otherwise disqualify them from holding public office, this was to be determined by the electorate if the office in question was one to which occupation is by an election.At the time, the reasoning was that the sovereign right of a people to elect leaders of their choice should not be clogged by claims of want of integrity. This was a judicial decision that the IEBC never sought to challenge. The question then is: What has changed in this election? Third, a reading of the Constitution of Kenya is clear that where charges of a criminal offence have been preferred against a person who is seeking public office, no adverse decision should be made based on the court proceedings until the matter is determined ultimately and all appeal options exhausted.The IEBC s declaration would appear to jettison this constitutional option.The IEBC would do well to take heed that although the issue of integrity and ethics is otherwise thought to be in the realm of conscience and personal views, they morphed into legal questions under Chapter Six of the Constitution. 