Faced with a re-energised opposition coalition, President Uhuru Kenyatta has moved to forge alliances with newly formed small parties in northeastern Kenya to boost his numbers ahead the August elections. For two consecutive days, President Kenyatta, the leader of Jubilee Party, has held talks with leaders from the northeastern region, which often presents a swing vote for mainstream parties. In the 2013 election, both the President s Jubilee Alliance and Raila Odinga s Coalition for Reform and Democracy (Cord) shared the votes almost equally in the counties of Garissa, Wajir and Mandera, Isiolo and Marsabit. But Jubilee Party has now forged an alliance with the northeastern leaders, which could tip the scales in the August 8 elections. On Wednesday, the President met with leaders of the Economic Freedom Party (EFP) that was founded last year to push the interests of the pastoralist communities in the north. Led by chairman Issack Hassan Abey and the secretary-general Abdullahi Gessey, the leaders expressed their desire to work together with Jubilee in entrenching democracy and uniting all Kenyans. We support you as our president and we are mobilising voters to ensure your get 98 per cent of the votes in Mandera County and in other places, said Hassan Noor Hassan, who is vying for Mandera Governorship on the party s ticket. Marginalisation The following day, the president received another delegation from the Jubilee-affiliated Frontier Alliance Party (FAP) led by Marsabit Governor Ukur Yattani, who also endorsed his candidature. FAP passed a resolution that they will field candidates for all other elective posts, except the presidency. Since Independence in 1963, the residents of the arid and semi-arid northeastern region have complained of marginalisation by successive governments and have recently decided to form political parties to advance their interests. Faced with a re-energised opposition coalition, President Uhuru Kenyatta has moved to forge alliances with newly formed small parties in northeastern Kenya to boost his numbers ahead the August elections. For two consecutive days, President Kenyatta, the leader of Jubilee Party, has held talks with leaders from the northeastern region, which often presents a swing vote for mainstream parties.In the 2013 election, both the President s Jubilee Alliance and Raila Odinga s Coalition for Reform and Democracy (Cord) shared the votes almost equally in the counties of Garissa, Wajir and Mandera, Isiolo and Marsabit. But Jubilee Party has now forged an alliance with the northeastern leaders, which could tip the scales in the August 8 elections. On Wednesday, the President met with leaders of the Economic Freedom Party (EFP) that was founded last year to push the interests of the pastoralist communities in the north.Led by chairman Issack Hassan Abey and the secretary-general Abdullahi Gessey, the leaders expressed their desire to work together with Jubilee in entrenching democracy and uniting all Kenyans. We support you as our president and we are mobilising voters to ensure your get 98 per cent of the votes in Mandera County and in other places, said Hassan Noor Hassan, who is vying for Mandera Governorship on the party s ticket. MarginalisationThe following day, the president received another delegation from the Jubilee-affiliated Frontier Alliance Party (FAP) led by Marsabit Governor Ukur Yattani, who also endorsed his candidature. FAP passed a resolution that they will field candidates for all other elective posts, except the presidency. Since Independence in 1963, the residents of the arid and semi-arid northeastern region have complained of marginalisation by successive governments and have recently decided to form political parties to advance their interests.