A Kenyan judge who freed a man convicted of defiling a minor has attracted the international spotlight, with his ruling being judged the worst in the world for the past year. Justice Said Juma Chitembwe, ruled that the child appeared willing to have sex with the defendant. He, therefore, on April 25 last year, set free Martin Charo, 24, who had been sentenced to 20 years in prison for having sex with a 13-year-old. The verdict received the Golden Bludgeon (a court ruling with a negative effect on women and girls' lives) in Spain on Wednesday by Women s Link Worldwide. It ranked the world's worst ruling for women s rights in 2016 among 18 other cases. The State has since appealed against the ruling. Not screaming loud enough An Italian court s decision got the Silver Bludgeon for acquitting a man who raped his co-worker after ruling that the woman failed to prove her case for not screaming loud enough. The Supreme Court of the Philippines decision to ban access to certain contraceptive methods, denying millions of women the right to freely choose what drugs to use, was voted third worst decision in the world. 'Behaving like an adult' Under Kenya's Sexual Offences Act, a child below 18 years cannot give consent to sexual intercourse and therefore, all intimacy with children, willing or not, is defilement. Despite the provisions of the law, judge Chitembwe overturned the 20-year jail term that a magistrate had given Charo and freed him. Where the child behaves like an adult and willingly sneaks into men s houses for purposes of having sex, the court ought to treat such a child as a grown up who knows what she is doing, the judge said. He said his ruling emanated from the girl s evidence. She went to the appellant s place to have sex. She had known the appellant for about three years. She dodged her brothers after going to the beach and sneaked into the appellant s house, he argued. Justice Chitembwe indicated that though she appeared to him as a young lady aged 14 years, she had behaved like a full grown up woman who was already engaging and enjoying sex with men . A Kenyan judge who freed a man convicted of defiling a minor has attracted the international spotlight, with his ruling being judged the worst in the world for the past year.Justice Said Juma Chitembwe, ruled that the child appeared willing to have sex with the defendant.He, therefore, on April 25 last year, set free Martin Charo, 24, who had been sentenced to 20 years in prison for having sex with a 13-year-old.The verdict received the Golden Bludgeon (a court ruling with a negative effect on women and girls' lives) in Spain on Wednesday by Women s Link Worldwide. It ranked the world's worst ruling for women s rights in 2016 among 18 other cases.The State has since appealed against the ruling.Not screaming loud enoughAn Italian court s decision got the Silver Bludgeon for acquitting a man who raped his co-worker after ruling that the woman failed to prove her case for not screaming loud enough.The Supreme Court of the Philippines decision to ban access to certain contraceptive methods, denying millions of women the right to freely choose what drugs to use, was voted third worst decision in the world.'Behaving like an adult'Under Kenya's Sexual Offences Act, a child below 18 years cannot give consent to sexual intercourse and therefore, all intimacy with children, willing or not, is defilement.Despite the provisions of the law, judge Chitembwe overturned the 20-year jail term that a magistrate had given Charo and freed him. Where the child behaves like an adult and willingly sneaks into men s houses for purposes of having sex, the court ought to treat such a child as a grown up who knows what she is doing, the judge said.He said his ruling emanated from the girl s evidence. She went to the appellant s place to have sex. She had known the appellant for about three years. She dodged her brothers after going to the beach and sneaked into the appellant s house, he argued.Justice Chitembwe indicated that though she appeared to him as a young lady aged 14 years, she had behaved like a full grown up woman who was already engaging and enjoying sex with men .