Just a day after surviving calls to resign, President Jacob Zuma faces yet another hurdle. A motion of no confidence in the president has been scheduled for Tuesday April 18, National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete confirmed. This will be the ninth motion of no confidence brought against President Zuma in his second term in office that ends in 2009. None of them have been successful. The ruling African National Congress (ANC) national working committee had on Wednesday announced it would not take part in a campaign to unseat its own leader. The party said this after a lengthy meeting on Tuesday night. There shouldn't be an expectation that the ANC will be part of a campaign to unseat it's own president, said Mr Gwede Mantashe, the ANC secretary general. READ:Zuma to stay on as SA president Calls to vote There are 400 MPs in Parliament. The ANC has 249 MPs. If 50 MPs were to switch sides and vote with all opposition parties, President Zuma would lose the vote of no-confidence. The Democratic Alliance (DA) and the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) have taken the measures following President Zuma's decision to axe Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan last Friday. Former Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba replaced Mr Gordhan, sparking a backlash from South Africans. EFF leader Julius Malema said they would go all out to unseat President Zuma. We are going to do everything in our power against Zuma. We now have to put our political differences aside to ensure that there is unity of purpose to save this country," Mr Malema told journalists last week. DA spokesperson Mabine Seabe said that the motion was the most powerful message it could send. As political parties, we must put our narrow differences aside, he said. Just a day after surviving calls to resign, President Jacob Zuma faces yet another hurdle. A motion of no confidence in the president has been scheduled for Tuesday April 18, National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete confirmed.This will be the ninth motion of no confidence brought against President Zuma in his second term in office that ends in 2009. None of them have been successful.The ruling African National Congress (ANC) national working committee had on Wednesday announced it would not take part in a campaign to unseat its own leader. The party said this after a lengthy meeting on Tuesday night. There shouldn't be an expectation that the ANC will be part of a campaign to unseat it's own president, said Mr Gwede Mantashe, the ANC secretary general. READ:Zuma to stay on as SA presidentCalls to voteThere are 400 MPs in Parliament. The ANC has 249 MPs. If 50 MPs were to switch sides and vote with all opposition parties, President Zuma would lose the vote of no-confidence.The Democratic Alliance (DA) and the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) have taken the measures following President Zuma's decision to axe Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan last Friday.Former Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba replaced Mr Gordhan, sparking a backlash from South Africans.EFF leader Julius Malema said they would go all out to unseat President Zuma. We are going to do everything in our power against Zuma. We now have to put our political differences aside to ensure that there is unity of purpose to save this country," Mr Malema told journalists last week.DA spokesperson Mabine Seabe said that the motion was the most powerful message it could send. As political parties, we must put our narrow differences aside, he said. 